

===== PAGE 1 =====

; . 1 SAFETY LIMITS
::=======-===--==================
-' . 1 . 1 REACTOR con
The restriction• of thia aafety l.uti.t prevent ovarhaatin!J of the f'uel and
i:ossi.ble cladding perforation which would result in th• rel•••• of fission
i:roducts to the reactor coolant. overheating of the fuel cladding is prevented
J::,y restricting :fuel operation to within the nucleate boili.ng raqi.ae where the
beat transfer coaff'iciant ia .lazqa and the cl•dding aurfaca tamperaturtt i.•
slightly above the coolant saturation temp9ratara.
Operation abov. the upper boundazy of the nucleate boiling raqiae could
result in axcassi.ve cladding temperature• becauaa of the onaet of departure
from nucleate boiling (man and the reaultant sharp reduction ill heat transfer
coefficient. DNB ia not a directly measurable parameter during operation and
t.herafora ~:RM1u. POWER and Reactor Coolant Temperature and Pressure have been
related to DNB through correlations •hi.ch have been developed to predict the
DNB flux and the location of DNB for axially uni.form and non-uni.form heat flux
d.istri.butions. The local DNB heat flux ratio, DNBR, d.acidad •• the ratio of
th.e heat flux that would cause DNB at a particul.ar core location to the local
heat flux, is indicative of the margin to DNB.
Th.a DNB design basi.s i.s a• follows! uncartai.ntias i.n the WRS-1 and WU-2
c:>rrelations,·plant operating parameters, nuclear and thermal parameters, fuel
f!lbrication parameters, and computer codas are considered statistically such
t~at there is at least a, 95 percent probak>ility with 95 percent confidence
l,aval that DNBR will not occur on tha aost li.aiting fuel rod during Cond:..tion
I and II events. This establishes a dasi.gn DNBR value which aust be ••tin
pLant safety analyses using values of input Paramaters without uncertai.nti.es.
The curves of Figura 2.1-1 ahows the loci of point.a of THERMAL -POWER, -I
R,;aactor Coolant System pressure and-average temperature for whi.ch the :mi.nimum
D::-mR is no less than th• daaiqn DNBR value, or the average enthalpy at the
v,usel exit is equal to th• 8Dthal.py of aaturatad liqw.d.
The cuxves are baaed on an enthalpy hot channel factor, F"27 and
611
a reference cosine with a peak of 1.SS for axial power ahapa. An allowance i.s
r.,..
ir1c:ludad for an increase ill at reduced power based on the axpres~i.on:
F1 61 • J'1lff 61 [l.0 + PF.611 (1.0 - P)]
Where: v!TP1o& ia E:2•.,)..im.it at RATED THE:RMAI. l'OWER in the Core Operating Li:mi.ts
Report (COLR) •
PFA a is the Power Factor Mw. tipliar ~or r' .A l apecifi~ ill the CCLlt, "mid
Pis THERHJU. POWER
RA'l'ED THERMAL POWEil
These limiting heat flux conditions are hi.gher than those calculated
a1.;
for the range of control rod positions from FOLLY W7THDRAWN to
the maximum allowable control rod insertion aasum.ing th• axial power
i.%:il>al.a.nce is within th• li.ai ts of the f 1 (~t a I) function of the
overtamparature trip. When the axial. power
SA::.EM - UNIT 2 B 2-1 Amendment No.197

===== PAGE 2 =====

~.AFETY LlMITS
!ASES
imbalance is not within the tolerance, the axial power imbalance affect on the
Overtemperature delta T trips will reduce the setpoints to provide protection
consistent with core safety lim1u.
!.· 1.2 REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM PRESSURE
The restriction of this Safety Limit protects the integrity of the Reactor
Coolant System from overpressurization and thereby prevents the release of
radfonuclides contained in the reactor coolant from reaching the containment
atmosphere4
The reactor pressure vessel and pressurizer are designed ta Section III
of the ASME Code for Nuclear Power Plant which permfu a maximum transient
pressure of 110S (2735 psig} of design pressure. The Reactor Coolant Syste■
piping and fittings are designed to ANSI B 31.1 1955 Edition while the valves
are designed to ANSI 8 16.S, MSS-SP-66-1964, or ASME Section III-1968, which
permit max1mua transient pressures of up to 120S (2985 psfg} of c.omponent
design pressure. The Safety Limit of 2735 psfg fs therefore consistent with
the design criteria and associated code requirements.
The entire Reactor Coolant System is hydrotested at 3107 psfg, 1251 of
design pressure, to demonstrata integrity prior to initial operation.
SALEM - UNIT 2

===== PAGE 3 =====

2.2 LIMITING SAFETY SYSTEM SETTINGS
2.2.l REACTOR TRIP SYSTEM INSTRUMENTATION SET?OINTS
The Trip Setpoints are the nominal values at which the bistables are set.
Any bistable is considered to be properly adjusted when the "as•left" value is
within the band for CHANNEL CALIBRATION accuracy (i.e., ± rack calibration+
comparator setting accuracy).
The Trip Setpoints used in the bistabl~s are based on the analytical
limits stated in the UFSAR. The selection of these Trip Setpoints is such
that adequate protection is provided when all sensor and processing time
delays are taken into account. To allow for calibration tolerances,
instrumentation uncertainties, instrument drift, and severe environment errors
for those Reactor Protection System {RPS) channels that must function in harsh
environments as defined by 10 CFR 50.49, the Trip Setpoints and Allowable
Values specified in the Technical Specification Limiting Conditions for
Operation (LCO'sJ are conservatively adjusted with respect to the analytical
limits. The methodology used to calculate the Ti:ip Setpoints is consistent
with Instrument society of America standard ISA-S67.04-1982, which is endorsed
via NRC Regulatory Guide 1.105, Rev. 2. The actual nominal Trip Setpoint
entered into the bistable is more conservative than that specified by the
Allowable Value to account for changes in random measurement errors detectable
by a CHANNEL FUNCTIONAL TEST. One example of such a change in measurement
error is drift during the surveillance interval. If the measured setpoint
does not exceed the-Allowable value, the bistable is considered OPERABLE.
Setpoints in accordance with the Allowable Value ensure that the safety
analyses which demonstrate that safety limits are not violated remain valid
(provided the unit is tJperated within the LCO' s at t~lc onset of any design
basis event and the equipment functions as designed).
The Trip Setpoints and Allowable Values listed in the LCO's incorporate
all of the known uncertainties applicable for each channel. The magnitudes of I
these uncertainties are factored into the determination cf each Trip Setpoint.
All field sensors and signal processing equipment for these channels are
assumed to operate within the allowances of these uncertainty magnitudes.
Manual Refctor Trip
The Manual Reactor Trip is a redundant channel to the automatic
protective instrumentation channels and provides manual reactor trip
capability.
Power Range, Neutron Flux
The Power Ranae, Neutron Flux channel high setpoint provides reactor core
protection against reactivity excursions which are too rapid :o be protected
by temperature and pressure protective circuitry. The low set point provides
redundant protection in the power range for a power excursion beginning from
low power. The trip associated with the low setpoint may be manually bypassed
when P-10 is active (two of the four power range channels indicate a power
level of above approximately 9 percent of RATED THERMAL POWER) and is auto-
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 2-3 Amendment !-..i. 140

===== PAGE 4 =====

LIMITING SAFETY SYSTEM SETTINGS
BASES
matically reinstated when P-10 becomes inactive (three of the four channels
indicate a power level below approximately 9 percent of RATED THERMAL POWER)
Power Range, Neutron Flux, High Rate
The Power Range Positive Rate trip provides protection against rapid
flux increases which are characteristic of rod ejection events from any power
level. Specifically, this trip complements the Power Range Neutron Flux High
and Low trips to ensure that the criteria are met for rod ejection from
partial power.
Intermediate and Source Range, Nuclear Flux
The Intermediate and Source Range, Nuclear Flux trips provide reactor core
protection during reactor startup. These trips provide redundant protection
to the low setpoint trip of the Power Range, Neutron Flux channels. The
Source Range Channels will initiate a reactor trip at about 10+5 counts per
second unless manually blocked when P-6 becomes active. The Intermediate
Range Channels will initiate a reactor trip at a current level proportional
to approximately 25 percent of RATED THERMAL POWER unless manually blocked
when P-10 becomes active. No credit was taken for operation of the trips
associated with either the Intermediate or Source Range Channels in the
accident analyses; however, their functional capability at the specified trip
settings i.s required by this specification to enhance the overall reliability
of the Reactor Protection System.
Overtemperature d T
The Overtemperature d T trip provides core protection to prevent DNB
for all combinations of pressure, power, coolant temperature, and axial power
distribution, provided that the transient is slow with respect to piping
transit delays from the core to the temperature detectors (about 4 seconds),
and pressure is within the range between the High and Low Pressure reactor
trips. This setpoint includes corrections for changes in density and heat
capacity of water with temperature and dynamic compensation for piping delays
from the core to the loop temperature detectors. With normal axial power
distribution, this reactor trip limit is always below the core safety limit
as shown in Figure 2.1-1. If axial peaks are greater than design, as
indicated by the difference between top and bottom power range nuclear
detectors, the reactor trip is automatically reduced according to the
notations in Table 2.2-1.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 2-4 Amendment No. 261
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 5 =====

LIMITING SAFETY SYSTEM SETTINGS
BASES
-----------------------------------------==--=================================
Operation with a reactor coolant loop out of service below the 4 loop P-8
setpoint does not require reactor protection system setpoint modification
because the P-8 setpoint and associated trip will prevent DNB during 3 loop
operation exclusive of the Overtemperature delta T setpoint. Three loop
operation above the 4 loop P-8 has not been evaluated and is not permitted.
Overpower Delta T
The Overpower delta T reactor trip provides assurance of fuel integrity,
e.g., no melting, under all possible overpower conditions, limits the required
range for Overtemperature delta T protection, and provides a backup to the High
Neutron Flux trip. The setpoint includes corrections for changes in density and
heat capacity of water with temperature, and dynamic compensation for piping
delays from the core to the loop temperature detectors. As a result of the new
AREVA steam generators, credit is taken for the operation of this trip in the
accident analyses for the protection of the reactor core following a main steam
line break.
Pressurizer Pressure
The Pressurizer High and Low Pressure trips are provided to limit the
pressure range in which reactor operation is permitted. The High Pressure trip
is backed up by the pressurizer code safety valves for RCS overpressure
protection, and is therefore set lower than the set pressure for these valves
(2485 psig). The Low Pressure trip provides protection by tripping the reactor
in the event of a loss of reactor coolant pressure.
Pressurizer Water Level
The Pressurizer High Water Level trip ensures protection against Reactor
Coolant System overpressurization by limiting the water level to a volume
sufficient to retain a steam bubble and prevent water relief through the
pressurizer safety valves. No credit was taken for operation of this trip in
the accident analyses; however, its functional capability at the specified trip
setting is required by this specification to enhance the overall reliability of
the Reactor Protection System.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 2-5 Amendment No. S2010-119
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 6 =====

L:MITING SAFETY SYSTEM SETTINGS
Lc,ss of Flow
The Loaa of Flow tri.pa p~de core protection to prevent DNB in the
event of a loaa of one or more reactor coolant pumps.
Above 11 percent of RAffD THE1"M>.L POWER, an automatic reactor trip will
occur if the flow in any two loopa drop below 901 of z,omin•J ~ull loop
fle>w. Above 36' (P-8) of RA1'ED THEJOO.I, POWER, auto-tic reactor trip will
occur if th• flow in any aingl• loop drops below 90% of nominal full loop
:fl,w. Thia latter trip will prevent th• minimum value of the DNBR from going
below the deaign DNBR value during normal operational transient■.
St~am Generator Water Level
The Staam Generator Watar Laval Low-Low trip provides cora protect.ion by
pruventing operation with the steam generator water level below th• m.ini.m:um
vo:.ume required for adaquata haat raaoval capacity. The specifiad aatpoint
provides a1lowanca that there will be sufficient water inventory in the ataam
generators at the time of trip to allow for starting dalJlY• of tha auxiliary
feodwatar systaa.
SAIJ:M - UNIT 2 B 2-6 Amenclaant No •197

===== PAGE 7 =====

LIMITING SAFETY SYSTEM SETTINGS
BASES
Undervoltage and Underfreguency - Reactor Coolant Pump Busses
The Undervoltage and Underfrequeney Reactor Coolant Pu111> bus trips provide
reactor core protection against CJB as a result of loss of voltage or .
underfrequency to more than one reactor coolant pump. The specified set points
assure a reactor trip signal fs generated before the low flow trip set point is
reached. Time delays are incorporated fn the underfrequency and undervoltage
trips to prevent spurious reactor trips from momentary electrical power
transients. For undervoltage, the delay ts set so that the time required for a
signal to reach the reactor trip breakers following the Si111Jltaneous trip of two
or more reactor coolant pump bus circuit breakers shall not exceed 0.9 seconds.
For underfrequency, the delay is set so that the time required for a signal to
reach the reactor trip breakers after the underfrequency trip set point is
reached shall not exceed 0.3 seconds.
Turbine Trip
A Turbine Trip causes a direct reactor trip when operating above P-9. Each
of the turbine trips provide turbine protection and reduce the severity of the
ensuing transient. No credit was taken fn the accident analyses for operation
of these trips. Their functional capability at the specified trip settings is
required to enhance the overall reliabi11ty of the Reactor Protection System.
Safety Injection Input from ESF
If a reactor trip has not already been generated by the reactor protective
instrumentation, the ESF automatic actuation logic channels will initiate a
reactor trip upon any signal which initiates a safety injection. This trip is
provided to protect the core in the event of a LDCA. The ESF instrumentation
channels which initiate a safety injection signal are shown in Table 3.3-3.
Reactor Coolant Pump Breaker Position Trip
The Reactor Coolant Pump Breaker Position Trip fs an anticipatory tr1p which
provides reactor core protection against CWB resulting from the opening of two
or more pump breakers above P-7. This trip 1s blocked below P-7. The
open/close position trip assures a reactor trip signal 1s generated before the
low flow trip set point is reached. No credit was taken 1n the accident analyses
for operation of this trip. The functional capability at the open/close
position settings 1s required to enhance the overall reliability of the Reactor
Protection system.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 2. . 7 Amendment No. 60

===== PAGE 8 =====

3/4.0 APPLICABILITY
BASES
Specification 3.0.1 through 3.0.4 establish the general requirements applicable to Limiting
Conditions for Operation. These requirements are based on the requirements for Limiting
Conditions for Operation stated in the Code of Federal Regulations, 10 CFR 50.36(c)(2):
"Limiting conditions for operation are the lowest functional capability or performance
levels of equipment required for safe operation of the facility. When a limiting condition for
operation of a nuclear reactor is not met, the licensee shall shut down the reactor or follow any
remedial action permitted by the technical specification until the condition can be met."
Specification 3.0.1 establishes the Applicability statement within each individual specification as
the requirement for when (i.e., in which OPERATIONAL MODES or other specified conditions)
conformance to the Limiting Conditions for Operation is required for safe operation of the
facility. The ACTION requirements establish those remedial measures that must be taken
within specified time limits when the requirements of a Limiting Condition for Operation are not
met.
There are two basic types of ACTION requirements. The first specifies the remedial measures
that permit continued operation of the facility which is not further restricted by the time limits of
the ACTION requirements. In this case, conformance to the ACTION requirements provides an
acceptable level of safety for unlimited continued operation as long as the ACTION
requirements continue to be met. The second type of ACTION requirement specifies a time
limit in which conformance to the conditions of the Limiting Condition for Operation must be met.
This time limit is the allowable outage time to restore an inoperable system or component to
OPERABLE status or for restoring parameters within specified limits. If these actions are not
completed within the allowable outage time limits, a shutdown is required to place the facility in
a MODE or condition in which the specification no longer applies. The ACTIONS for not
meeting a single LCO adequately manage any increase in plant risk, provided any unusual
external conditions (e.g., severe weather, offsite power instability) are considered. In addition,
the increased risk associated with simultaneous removal of multiple structures, systems, trains
or components from service is assessed and managed in accordance with 10 CFR 50.65(a)(4).
The specified time limits of the ACTION requirements are applicable from the point in time it is
identified that a Limiting Condition for Operation is not met. The time limits of the ACTION
requirements are also applicable when a system or component is removed from service for
surveillance testing or investigation of operational problems. Individual specifications may
include a specified time limit for the completion of a Surveillance Requirement when equipment
is removed from service. In this case, the allowable outage time limits of the ACTION
requirements are applicable when this limit expires if the surveillance has not been completed.
When a shutdown is required to comply with ACTION requirements, the plant may have entered
a MODE in which a new specification becomes applicable. In this case, the time limits of the
ACTION requirements would apply from the point in time that the new specification becomes
applicable if the requirements of the Limiting Condition for Operation are not met.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-1 S19-07

===== PAGE 9 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
Specification 3.0.2 establishes that noncompliance with a specification exists when the
requirements of the Limiting Condition for Operation are not met and the associated ACTION
requirements have not been implemented within the specified time interval. The purpose of this
specification is to clarify that (1) implementation of the ACTION requirements within the
specified time interval constitutes compliance with a specification and (2) completion of the
remedial measures of the ACTION requirements is not required when compliance with a
Limiting Condition of Operation is restored within the time interval specified in the associated
ACTION requirements.
Specification 3.0.3 establishes the shutdown ACTION requirements that must be implemented
when a Limiting Condition for Operation is not met and the condition is not specifically
addressed by the associated ACTION requirements. The purpose of this specification is to
delineate the time limits for placing the unit in a safe shutdown MODE when plant operation
cannot be maintained within the limits for safe operation defined by the Limiting Conditions for
Operation and its ACTION requirements. Planned entry into LCO 3.0.3 should be avoided. If it
is not practicable to avoid planned entry into LCO 3.0.3, plant risk should be assessed and
managed in accordance with 10 CFR 50.65(a)(4), and the planned entry into LCO 3.0.3 should
have less effect on plant safety than other practicable alternatives. One hour is allowed to
prepare for an orderly shutdown before initiating a change in plant operation. This time permits
the operator to coordinate the reduction in electrical generation with the load dispatcher to
ensure the stability and availability of the electrical grid. The time limits specified to enter lower
MODES of operation permit the shutdown to proceed in a controlled and orderly manner that is
well within the specified maximum cooldown rate and within the cooldown capabilities of the
facility assuming only the minimum required equipment is OPERABLE. This reduces thermal
stresses on components of the primary coolant system and the potential for a plant upset that
could challenge safety systems under conditions for which this specification applies.
If remedial measures permitting limited continued operation of the facility under the provisions of
the ACTION requirements are completed, the shutdown may be terminated. The time limits of
the ACTION requirements are applicable from the point in time there was a failure to meet a
Limiting Condition for Operation. Therefore, the shutdown may be terminated if the ACTION
requirements have been met, the LCO is no longer applicable, or the time limits of the ACTION
requirements have not expired, thus providing an allowance for the completion of the required
actions.
The time limits of Specification 3.0.3 allow 37 hours for the plant to be in the COLD
SHUTDOWN MODE when a shutdown is required during the POWER MODE of operation. If
the plant is in a lower MODE of operation when a shutdown is required, the time limit for
entering the next lower MODE of operation applies. However, if a lower MODE of operation is
entered in less time than allowed, the total allowable time to enter COLD SHUTDOWN, or other
applicable MODE, is not reduced. For example, if HOT STANDBY is entered in 2 hours, the
time allowed to reach HOT SHUTDOWN is the next 11 hours because of the total time to reach
HOT SHUTDOWN is not reduced from the allowable limit of 13 hours. Therefore, if remedial
measures are completed that would permit a return to POWER operation, a penalty is not
incurred by having to enter a lower MODE in less than the total time allowed.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-2 S19-07

===== PAGE 10 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
The same principle applies with regard to the allowable outage time limits of the ACTION requirements, if
compliance with the ACTION requirements for one specification results in entry into a MODE or condition
of operation for another specification in which the requirements of the Limiting Condition for Operation are
not met. If the new specification becomes applicable in less time than specified, the difference may be
added to the allowable outage time limits of the second specification. However, the allowable outage time
limits of ACTION requirements for a higher MODE of operation may not be used to extend the allowable
outage time that is applicable when a Limiting Condition for Operation is not met in a lower MODE of
operation.
The shutdown requirements of Specification 3.0.3 do not apply in MODES 5 and 6, because the ACTION
requirements of individual specifications define the remedial measures to be taken.
Specification 3.0.4 establishes limitations on changes in MODES or other specified conditions in the
Applicability when an LCO is not met. It allows placing the unit in a MODE or other specified condition
stated in that Applicability (e.g., the Applicability desired to be entered) when unit conditions are such that
the requirements of the LCO would not be met, in accordance with either LCO 3.0.4.a, LCO 3.0.4.b, or
LCO 3.0.4.c.
LCO 3.0.4.a allows entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability with the LCO not met
when the associated ACTIONS to be entered following entry into the MODE or other specified condition in
the Applicability will permit continued operation within the MODE or other specified condition for an
unlimited period of time. Compliance with ACTIONS that permit continued operation of the unit for an
unlimited period of time in a MODE or other specified condition provides an acceptable level of safety for
continued operation. This is without regard to the status of the unit before or after the MODE change.
Therefore, in such cases, entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability may be made
and the Required Actions followed after entry into the Applicability.
For example, LCO 3.0.4.a may be used when the Required Action to be entered states that an inoperable
instrument channel must be placed in the trip condition within the Completion Time. Transition into a
MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability may be made in accordance with LCO 3.0.4 and the
channel is subsequently placed in the tripped condition within the Completion Time, which begins when
the Applicability is entered. If the instrument channel cannot be placed in the tripped condition and the
subsequent default ACTION ("Required Action and associated Completion Time not met") allows the
OPERABLE train to be placed in operation, use of LCO 3.0.4.a is acceptable because the subsequent
ACTIONS to be entered following entry into the MODE include ACTIONS (place the OPERABLE train in
operation) that permit safe plant operation for an unlimited period of time in the MODE or other specified
condition to be entered.
LCO 3.0.4.b allows entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability with the LCO not met
after performance of a risk assessment addressing inoperable systems and components, consideration of
the results, determination of the acceptability of entering the MODE or other specified condition in the
Applicability, and establishment of risk management actions, if appropriate.
The risk assessment may use quantitative, qualitative, or blended approaches, and the risk assessment
will be conducted using the plant program, procedures, and criteria in place to implement 10 CFR
50.65(a)(4), which requires that risk impacts of maintenance activities to be assessed and managed. The
risk assessment, for the purposes of LCO 3.0.4.b, must take into account all inoperable Technical
Specification equipment regardless of whether the equipment is included in the normal 10 CFR
50.65(a)(4) risk assessment scope. The risk assessments will be conducted using the procedures and
guidance endorsed by Regulatory Guide 1.182, “Assessing and Managing Risk Before Maintenance
Activities at Nuclear Power Plants.” Regulatory Guide 1.182 endorses the guidance in Section 11 of
NUMARC 93-01, “Industry Guideline for Monitoring the Effectiveness of Maintenance at Nuclear Power
Plants.” These documents address general guidance for conduct of the risk assessment, quantitative and
qualitative guidelines for establishing risk management actions, and example risk management actions.
These include actions to plan and conduct other activities in a manner that controls overall risk, increased
risk awareness by shift and management
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-3 Amendment No. 308
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 11 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
personnel, actions to reduce the duration of the condition, actions to minimize the magnitude of risk
increases (establishment of backup success paths or compensatory measures), and determination that
the proposed MODE change is acceptable. Consideration should also be given to the probability of
completing restoration such that the requirements of the LCO would be met prior to the expiration of
ACTIONS Completion Times that would require exiting the Applicability.
LCO 3.0.4.b may be used with single, or multiple systems and components unavailable. NUMARC 93-01
provides guidance relative to consideration of simultaneous unavailability of multiple systems and
components.
The results of the risk assessment shall be considered in determining the acceptability of entering the
MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability, and any corresponding risk management actions.
The LCO 3.0.4.b risk assessments do not have to be documented.
The Technical Specifications allow continued operation with equipment unavailable in MODE 1 for the
duration of the Completion Time. Since this is allowable, and since in general the risk impact in that
particular MODE bounds the risk of transitioning into and through the applicable MODES or other
specified conditions in the Applicability of the LCO, the use of the LCO 3.0.4.b allowance should be
generally acceptable, as long as the risk is assessed and managed as stated above. However, there is a
small subset of systems and components that have been determined to be more important to risk and use
of the LCO 3.0.4.b allowance is prohibited. The LCOs governing these system and components contain
Notes prohibiting the use of LCO 3.0.4.b by stating that LCO 3.0.4.b is not applicable.
LCO 3.0.4.c allows entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability with the LCO not met
based on an ACTION in the Specification which states LCO 3.0.4.c is applicable. These specific
allowances permit entry into MODES or other specified conditions in the Applicability when the associated
ACTIONS to be entered do not provide for continued operation for an unlimited period of time and a risk
assessment has not been performed. This allowance may apply to all the ACTIONS or to a specific
Required Action of a Specification. The risk assessments performed to justify the use of LCO 3.0.4.b
usually only consider systems and components. For this reason, LCO 3.0.4.c is typically applied to
Specifications that describe values and parameters (e.g., RCS Specific Activity), and may be applied to
other Specifications based on NRC plant-specific approval.
The provisions of this Specification should not be interpreted as endorsing the failure to exercise the good
practice of restoring systems or components to OPERABLE status before entering an associated MODE
or other specified condition in the Applicability.
The provisions of LCO 3.0.4 shall not prevent changes in MODES or other specified conditions in the
Applicability that are required to comply with ACTIONS. In addition, the provisions of LCO 3.0.4 shall not
prevent changes in MODES or other specified conditions in the Applicability that result from any unit
shutdown. In this context, a unit shutdown is defined as a change in MODE or other specified condition in
the Applicability associated with transitioning from MODE 1 to MODE 2, MODE 2 to MODE 3, MODE 3 to
MODE 4, and MODE 4 to MODE 5.
Upon entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability with the LCO not met, LCO 3.0.1
and LCO 3.0.2 require entry into the applicable Conditions and
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-3a Amendment No. 308
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 12 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
Required Actions until the Condition is resolved, until the LCO is met, or until the
unit is not within the Applicability of the Technical Specification.
Surveillances do not have to be performed on the associated inoperable equipment (or
on variables outside the specified limits), as permitted by SR 4.0.1, Therefore,
utilizing LCO 3.0.4 is not a violation of SR 4.0,1 or SR 4,0,4 for any Surveillances
that have not been performed on inoperable equipment. However, SRs must be met to
ensure OPERABILITY prior to declaring the associated equipment OPERABLE (or variable
within limits) and restoring compliance with the affected LCO.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-3b Amendment No. 258

===== PAGE 13 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
r
Specification 3.0.5
DELETED
•
•
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-4 Amendment No. 234

===== PAGE 14 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
Specification 3.0.6 establishes the allowance for restoring equipment to service under administrative
controls when it has been removed from service or declared inoperable to comply with ACTIONS. The
sole purpose of this Specification is to provide an exception to LCO 3.0.2 (e.g., to not comply with the
applicable Required Action(s)) to allow the performance of testing required to restore and demonstrate:
a. The OPERABILITY of the equipment being returned to service; or
b. The OPERABILITY of other equipment.
The administrative controls ensure the time the equipment is returned to service in conflict with the
requirements of the ACTIONS is limited to the time absolutely necessary to perform the testing required to
restore and demonstrate the operability of the equipment. This Specification does not provide time to
perform any other preventive or corrective maintenance.
LCO 3.0.6 should not be used in lieu of other practicable alternatives that comply with Required Actions
and that do not require changing the MODE or other specified conditions in the Applicability in order to
demonstrate equipment is OPERABLE. LCO 3.0.6 is not intended to be used repeatedly.
An example of demonstrating equipment is OPERABLE with the Required Actions not met is opening a
manual valve that was closed to comply with Required Actions to isolate a flowpath with excessive
Reactor Coolant System (RCS) Pressure Isolation Valve (PIV) leakage in order to perform testing to
demonstrate that RCS PIV leakage is now within limit.
Examples of demonstrating equipment OPERABILITY include instances in which it is necessary to take
an inoperable channel or trip system out of a tripped condition that was directed by a Required Action, if
there is no Required Action Note for this purpose. An example of verifying OPERABILITY of equipment
removed from service is taking a tripped channel out of the tripped condition to permit the logic to function
and indicate the appropriate response during performance of required testing on the inoperable channel.
Examples of demonstrating the OPERABILITY of other equipment are taking an inoperable channel or trip
system out of the tripped condition 1) to prevent the trip function from occurring during the performance of
testing required to restore OPERABILITY of another channel in the other trip system, or 2) to permit the
logic to function and indicate the appropriate response during the performance of testing required to
restore and demonstrate the OPERABILITY of another channel in the same trip system.
The administrative controls in LCO 3.0.6 apply in all cases to systems or components in Chapter 3 of the
Technical Specifications, as long as the testing could not be conducted while complying with the Required
Actions. This includes the realignment or repositioning of redundant or alternate equipment or trains
previously manipulated to comply with ACTIONS, as well as equipment removed from service or declared
inoperable to comply with ACTIONS.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-4a Amendment No. 308
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 15 =====

APPLICABILITY
•
BASES
Specifications 4.0.1 through 4.0.5 establish the general requirements
applicable to Surveillartce Requirements. These requirements are based on the
Surveillance Requirements stated in the Code of Federal Regulations, 10 CFR
50.36(c) (3):
"Surveillance requirements are requirements relating to test,
calibration, or inspection to ensure that the necessary quality of systems and
components is maintained, that facility operation will be within safety
limits, and that the limiting conditions of operation will be met."
Specification 4.0.1 establishes the requirement that Surveillance Requirements
must be met during the OPERATIONAL MODES or other specified conditions in the
Applicability for which the requirements of the Limiting Conditions for
Operation apply, unless otherwise specified in an individual Surveillance
Requirement. This specification is to ensure that surveillances are performed
to verify the OPERABILITY of systems and components and that variables are
within specified limits.
Failure to meet a Surveillance within the specified Frequency, in accordance
with Specification 4.0.2, constitutes a failure to meet an LCO.
Systems and components are assumed to be OPERABLE when the associated
Surveillance Requirements have been met. Nothing in this Specification,
however, is to be construed as implying that systems or components are
OPERABLE when either:
• a. The systems or components are known to be inoperable, although still
meeting the Surveillance Requirements, or
b. The requirements of the Surveillance(s) are known to be not met
between required Surveillance performances.
surveillances do not have to be performed when the facility is in an
OPERATIONAL MODE or other specified condition for which the requirements of
the associated Limiting Condition for Operation do not apply, unless otherwise
specified. The Surveillance Requirements associated with a Special Test
Exception are only applicable when the Special Test Exception is used as an
allowable exception to the requirements of a specification.
Unplanned events may satisfy the requirements (including applicable acceptance
criteria) for a given Surveillance. In this case, the unplanned event may be
credited as fulfilling the performance of the surveillance Requirement. This
allowance includes those Surveillances whose performance is normally precluded
in a given OPERATIONAL MODE or other specified condition.
Surveillances, including Surveillances invoked by ACTIONS, do not have to be
performed on inoperable equipment because the ACTIONS define the remedial
measures that apply. surveillances have to be met and performed in accordance
with Specification 4.0.2 prior to returning equipment to OPERABLE status.
Upon completion of maintenance, appropriate post maintenance testing is
required to declare equipment OPERABLE. This includes ensuring applicable
Surveillances are not failed and their most recent performance is in
accordance with Specification 4.0.2. Post maintenance testing may not be
possible in the current OPERATIONAL MODE or other specified conditions in the
• Applicability due to the necessary unit parameters not having been
established. In these situations, the equipment may be considered OPERABLE
provided testing has been satisfactorily completed to the extent possible and
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-5 Amendment No. 237

===== PAGE 16 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
the equipment is not otherwise believed to be incapable of performing its function. This will allow operation
to proceed to an OPERATIONAL MODE or other specified condition where other necessary post
maintenance tests can be completed.
Some examples of this process are:
a. Auxiliary Feedwater (AFW) pump turbine maintenance during refueling that requires testing at
steam pressures > 680 psig. However, if other appropriate testing is satisfactorily completed,
the AFW system can be considered OPERABLE. This allows startup and other necessary
testing to proceed until the plant reaches the steam pressure required to perform the testing.
b. High Pressure Safety Injection (HPI) maintenance during shutdown that requires system
functional tests at a specified pressure. Provided other appropriate testing is satisfactorily
completed, startup can proceed with HPI considered OPERABLE. This allows operation to
reach the specified pressure to complete the necessary post maintenance testing.
Specification 4.0.2 establishes the limit for which the specified time interval for Surveillance Requirements
may be extended. It permits an allowable extension of the normal surveillance interval to facilitate
surveillance scheduling and consideration of plant operating conditions that may not be suitable for
conducting the surveillance; e.g., transient conditions or other ongoing surveillance or maintenance
activities. It also provides flexibility to accommodate the length of a fuel cycle for surveillances that are
performed at each refueling outage and are specified with an 18 month surveillance interval. It is not
intended that this provision be used repeatedly to extend surveillance intervals beyond that specified for
surveillances that are not performed during refueling outages. The limitation of Specification 4.0.2 is
based on engineering judgment and the recognition that the most probable result of any particular
surveillance being performed is the verification of conformance with the Surveillance Requirements. This
provision is sufficient to ensure that the reliability ensured through surveillance activities is not significantly
degraded beyond that obtained from the specified surveillance interval.
Specification 4.0.3 establishes the flexibility to defer declaring affected equipment inoperable, or an
affected variable outside the specified limits, when a Surveillance has not been performed within the
specified frequency. A delay period of up to 24 hours or up to the limit of the specified frequency,
whichever is greater, applies from the point in time that it is discovered that the Surveillance has not been
performed in accordance with TS 3.0.2, and not at the time that the specified frequency was not met.
This delay period provides adequate time to perform Surveillances that have been missed. This delay
period permits the performance of a Surveillance before complying with Required Actions or other
remedial measures that might preclude performance of the Surveillance.
The basis for this delay period includes consideration of unit conditions, adequate planning, availability of
personnel, the time required to perform the Surveillance, the safety significance of the delay in completing
the required Surveillance, and the recognition that the most probable result of any particular Surveillance
being performed is the verification of conformance with the requirements.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-6 Amendment No.308
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 17 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
When a Surveillance with a Frequency based not on time intervals, but upon specified unit conditions,
operating situations, or requirements of regulations (e.g., prior to entering MODE 1 after each fuel loading,
or in accordance with 10 CFR 50, Appendix J, as modified by approved exemptions, etc.) is discovered to
not have been performed when specified, SR 4.0.3 allows for the full delay period of up to the specified
Frequency to perform the Surveillance. However, since there is not a time interval specified, the missed
Surveillance should be performed at the first reasonable opportunity. SR 4.0.3 provides a time limit for,
and allowances for the performance of, Surveillances that become applicable as a consequence of MODE
changes imposed by Required Actions.
SR 4.0.3 is only applicable if there is a reasonable expectation the associated equipment is OPERABLE or
that variables are within limits, and it is expected that the Surveillance will be met when performed. Many
factors should be considered, such as the period of time since the Surveillance was last performed, or
whether the Surveillance, or a portion thereof, has ever been performed, and any other indications, tests,
or activities that might support the expectation that the Surveillance will be met when performed. An
example of the use of SR 4.0.3 would be a relay contact that was not tested as required in accordance
with a particular SR, but previous successful performances of the SR included the relay contact; the
adjacent, physically connected relay contacts were tested during the SR performance; the subject relay
contact has been tested by another SR; or historical operation of the subject relay contact has been
successful. It is not sufficient to infer the behavior of the associated equipment from the performance of
similar equipment. The rigor of determining whether there is a reasonable expectation a Surveillance will
be met when performed should increase based on the length of time since the last performance of the
Surveillance. If the Surveillance has been performed recently, a review of the Surveillance history and
equipment performance may be sufficient to support a reasonable expectation that the Surveillance will be
met when performed. For Surveillances that have not been performed for a long period or that have never
been performed, a rigorous evaluation based on objective evidence should provide a high degree of
confidence that the equipment is OPERABLE. The evaluation should be documented in sufficient detail to
allow a knowledgeable individual to understand the basis for the determination.
Failure to comply with specified frequencies for Surveillances is expected to be an infrequent occurrence.
Use of the delay period established by SR 4.0.3 is a flexibility which is not intended to be used repeatedly
to extend Surveillance intervals. While up to 24 hours or the limit of the specified Frequency is provided to
perform the missed Surveillance, it is expected that the missed Surveillance will be performed at the first
reasonable opportunity. The determination of the first reasonable opportunity should include consideration
of the impact on plant risk (from delaying the Surveillance as well as any plant configuration changes
required or shutting the plant down to perform the Surveillance) and impact on any analysis assumptions,
in addition to unit conditions, planning, availability of personnel, and the time required to perform the
Surveillance.
This risk impact should be managed through the program in place to implement 10 CFR50.65(a)(4) and
its implementation guidance, NRC Regulatory Guide 1.182, ‘Assessing and Managing Risk Before
Maintenance Activities at Nuclear Power Plants.’ This Regulatory Guide addresses consideration of
temporary and aggregate risk impacts, determination of risk management action thresholds, and risk
management action up to and including plant shutdown. The missed Surveillance should be treated as an
emergent condition as discussed in the Regulatory Guide. The risk evaluation may use quantitative,
qualitative, or blended methods. The degree of depth and rigor of the evaluation should be commensurate
with the importance of the component. Missed Surveillances for important components should be
analyzed quantitatively. If the results of the risk evaluation determine the risk increase is significant, this
evaluation should be used to determine the safest course of action. All missed Surveillances will be placed
in the licensee's Corrective Action Program.
If a Surveillance is not completed within the allowed delay period, then the equipment is considered
inoperable, or the variable is considered outside the specified limits, and the Completion Times of the
Required Actions for the applicable LCO begin immediately upon expiration of the delay period. If a
Surveillance is failed within the delay period, then the equipment is inoperable, or the variable is outside
the specified limits, and the Completions Times of the Required Actions for the applicable LCO begins
immediately upon the failure of the Surveillance.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-7 Amendment No.308
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 18 =====

APPLICABILITY
BASES
Completion of the Surveillance within the delay period allowed by this Specification, or within the
Completion Time of the Actions, restores compliance with SR 4.0.1.
Specification 4.0.4 establishes the requirement that all applicable SRs must be met before entry into a
MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability.
This Specification ensures that system and component OPERABILITY requirements and variable limits
are met before entry into MODES or other specified conditions in the Applicability for which these systems
and components ensure safe operation of the unit. The provisions of this Specification should not be
interpreted as endorsing the failure to exercise the good practice of restoring systems or components to
OPERABLE status before entering an associated MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability.
A provision is included to allow entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability when an
LCO is not met due to Surveillance not being met in accordance with LCO 3.0.4.
However, in two certain circumstances, failing to meet an SR will not result in SR 4.0.4 restricting a MODE
change or other specified condition change:
(1) When a system, subsystem, division, component, device or variable is inoperable or outside its
specified limits, the associated SR(s) are not required to be performed, per SR 4.0.1, which states
that surveillances do not have to be performed on inoperable equipment. When equipment is
inoperable, SR 4.0.4 does not apply to the associated SR(s) since the requirement for the SR(s)
to be performed is removed. Therefore, failing to perform the Surveillance(s) within the specified
Frequency does not result in an SR 4.0.4 restriction to changing MODES or other specified
conditions of the Applicability. However, since the LCO is not met in this instance, LCO 3.0.4 will
govern any restrictions that may (or may not) apply to MODE or other specified condition changes.
(2) SR 4.0.4 does not restrict changing MODES or other specified conditions of the Applicability when
a Surveillance has not been performed within the specified Frequency, provided the requirement
to declare the LCO not met has been delayed in accordance with SR 4.0.3.
The provisions of SR 4.0.4 shall not prevent entry into MODES or other specified conditions in the
Applicability that are required to comply with ACTIONS. In addition, the provisions of SR 4.0.4 shall not
prevent changes in MODES or other specified conditions in the Applicability that result from any unit
shutdown. In this context, a unit shutdown is defined as a change in MODE or other specified condition in
the Applicability associated with transitioning from MODE 1 to MODE 2, MODE 2 to MODE 3, MODE 3 to
MODE 4, and MODE 4 to MODE 5.
The precise requirements for performance of SRs are specified such that exceptions to SR 4.0.4 are not
necessary. The specific time frames and conditions necessary for meeting the SRs are specified in the
Frequency, in the Surveillance, or both. This allows performance of Surveillances when the prerequisite
condition(s) specified in a Surveillance procedure require entry into the MODE or other specified condition
in the Applicability of the associated LCO prior to the performance or completion of a Surveillance. A
Surveillance that could not be performed until after entering the LCO’s Applicability would have its
Frequency specified such that it is not "due" until the specific conditions needed are met. Alternately, the
Surveillance may be stated in the form of a Note, as not required (to be met or performed) until a
particular event, condition, or time has been reached. Further discussion of the specific formats of SRs'
annotation is found in Section 1.4, Frequency.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-8 Amendment No. 308
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 19 =====

Specification deleted per Amendment 279
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 0-9 Amendment No. 279
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 20 =====

3/4.1 REACTIVITY CONTROL SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.1.1 BORATION CONTROL
3/4.1.1.1 and 3/4.1.1.2 SHUTDOWN MARGIN
A sufficient SHUTDOWN MARGIN ensures that 1) the reactor can be made subcritical from all
operating conditions, 2) the reactivity transients associated with postulated accident conditions
are controllable within acceptable limits, and 3) the reactor will be maintained sufficiently
subcritical to preclude inadvertent criticality in the shutdown condition.
SHUTDOWN MARGIN requirements vary throughout core life as a function of fuel depletion,
RCS boron concentration, and RCS T . The most restrictive condition occurs at EOL, with T
avg avg
at no load operating temperature, and is associated with a postulated steam line break accident
and resulting uncontrolled RCS cooldown. In the analysis of this accident, a minimum
SHUTDOWN MARGIN of 1.3% Δk/k is initially required to control the reactivity transient.
Accordingly, the SHUTDOWN MARGIN requirement is based upon this limiting condition and is
consistent with FSAR safety analysis assumptions. With T less than or equal to 200°F, the
avg
reactivity transients resulting from a postulated steam line break cooldown are minimal and a
1% Δk/k shutdown margin provides adequate protection.
Long-term core reactivity behavior is a result of the core physics design and cannot be easily
controlled once the core design is fixed. During operation, therefore, core reactivity behavior is
monitored through periodic measurement and tracking of the core reactivity balance, and
appropriate actions taken as necessary. Large differences between actual and predicted core
reactivity may indicate that the assumptions of the safety analyses are no longer valid, or that
the uncertainties in the nuclear design methodology are larger than expected. A limit on the
reactivity balance of ± 1% Δk/k has been established based on engineering judgment. A 1%
deviation in core reactivity from that predicted is larger than expected for normal operation and
should therefore be evaluated.
When measured core reactivity is within 1% Δk/k of the predicted value at steady state thermal
conditions, the core is considered to be operating within acceptable design limits. Since
deviations from the limit are normally detected by comparing predicted and measured steady
state RCS critical boron concentrations, the difference between measured and predicted values
would be approximately 100 ppm (depending on the boron worth) before the limit is reached.
These values are well within the uncertainty limits for analysis of boron concentration samples,
so that spurious violations of the limit due to uncertainty in measuring the RCS boron
concentrations are unlikely.
Core reactivity is verified by periodic comparisons of measured and predicted RCS boron
concentrations. The comparison is made considering that other core conditions are fixed or
stable, including control rod position, moderator temperature, fuel temperature, fuel depletion,
xenon concentration, and samarium concentration. The surveillance is performed at a frequency
controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 1-1 S22-09

===== PAGE 21 =====

3/4.1 REACTIVITY CONTROL SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.1.1.1 and 3/4.1.1.2 SHUTDOWN MARGIN (continued)
The predicted reactivity values shall be adjusted (normalized) to correspond to the actual core
conditions prior to exceeding a fuel burnup of 60 Effective Full Power Days after each fuel
loading. This adjustment ensures the design predicted core reactivity has been benchmarked
against the actual core performance early in the cycle. 60 EFPD allows sufficient time for core
conditions to reach steady state, but prevents operation for a large fraction of the fuel cycle
without establishing a benchmark for the design calculations.
3/4.1.1.3 MODERATOR TEMPERATURE COEFFICIENT (MTC)
The limitations on MTC are provided to ensure that the value of this coefficient remains within
the limiting condition assumed in the accident and transient analyses.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 1-1a S22-09

===== PAGE 22 =====

3/4.1
BASES , __ __,,,,, ..
m:c>
3/4 .1.1. 3 MODERATOrt TEMPIIIATPP coEFFicmNT rcenti.ou,su
••t
Th• M'1'C value• of thia apeci.fication aze applicable to a apeci:!ic of
plant conditions; accordin9ly, veri.fication o.f MTC valu•• at condition■ ot:har
than tho•• explicitly atatad will require extrapolati.o:n to thoae condit.iona iJl
order to ~fflit_&D accurate c:oap&riaon.
•4•t
'l'h• Ae9&tive M'1'C value equ.ivalant to the aaat poaitiva aoduator
density c~fficiant (MDC) , wu obtai.necl by i.ncr-enta1ly correct.in9 th• MDC
'l'h•••
uaad in th• l's.Alt wl.yaia to noaiul operating OOIIClitiona. corract:iona
i. :involved: Cl) a convaraion o.f 'the MDC uaad in the l'SAlt. anal.yaia to it.a
equivalent HTC, baaed on 'th• rat:e of change of aoderator denaity with
temperatur~ at RA'l'EI> 'l'HEJIKAL POWEJl condition■, and (2) aubtractin9 .froa this
value th• )\ar9eat difference■ in M'l'C obaerved between :IOI., all rod■ withdrawn,
tho••
RATED THEJQ,fAL IONER condit.ions, and aoat ac:lver•• conclitiou of aodarator
temperatur• and p:•••ur•, rod insertion, axial po••r akevin9, and xenon
concentration that can occur in no~ operation and 1-d to a signific:antl.y
aor• negati.ve EOI. M'l'C at RAftD ~ POWZJl. Th••• corr•cti.ona transfo~ed
th• MDC_va1u• uaed in th• l"SAJt analy•i• into the li.ai.t.i.n; End Qt' Cycl• I.if•
(EOL) HTC valu•. Th• 300 ppa aurveillance limit MrC value repreaenta a
conservative value at a core condition of 300 ppa eqw.lil:lriua boron
concentration that is obtained by correctinc; the li.&i ting EOI. M'l'C for burnu p
and l:lorn concentration.
Th• surv•illanc• requi.r-anta .for --••ur-•nt of th• M'l'C at th• beginning
a:•
and n••r th• end of the fuel cycle adequate to codir.m that t:he HTC
rea&ins with its li.aits ainc• this coefficient chan9•• slowly due principally
to th• r•ducti.ozi in JlCS boron concentration associated with .:fuel buz:up.
3/4.1.1.4 HINIHUl' TEMPERA.Al f0R c::RIT+@+II
This sp.ci.ficat.ion enaur•• that the r•actor will not be aaa critical
with t:h• Jteacto: coolant sy■t- ave:aga temperature l••• than 541.F. ~•
limitation is reqw.red to ensure lJ th• aoderator taaperatur• coefficient is
within its analyzed temperature range, 2) the protective i.nstrwaentation is
within its nonaal operati.D9 range, 3) th• P-12 i.nterlock is above it.a
allowable aetpoi.nt, •> the p:c-asauriz•r i• capabl• of bein9 i.n an OPERABLE
status v:i.t:h a ateaa ~l•, and 5) the :eactor p:ressur• vessel is abov• :i.b
~ni..mWl JU'IID'I -~:ra;v,re_._
$Al.EM - UNIT 2 Aaendaent No .197

===== PAGE 23 =====

REACTIVITY CONTROL SYST~1S
BASES
3/4.1.2 BORATION SYSTEMS
The boron injection system ensures that negative reactivity control is
available during each mode of facility operation. The components required to
perform this function include: 1) borated water sources, 2) charging pumps,
3) separate flow paths, 4) boric acid transfer pumps, and 5) offsite power or
an emergency power supply from OPERABLE diesel generators.
With the RCS average temperature~ 350°F, a minimum of two boron injection
flow paths are required to ensure single functional capability in the event
an assumed failure rende,rs one of the flow paths inoperable. The boration
capability of either flow path is sufficient to provide a SHUTDOWN MARGIN
from expected operating conditions of 1.3% delta k/k after xenon decay and
cooldown to 200°F. ThE; maximum expected boration capability (minimum boration
volume) requirement is established to conservatively bound expected operating
conditions throughout core operating life. The analysis assumes that the
most reactive control .rod is not inserted into the core. The maximum
expected boration capabiJ.ity requirement occurs at EOL from full power
equilibrium xenon conditions and requires borated water from a boric acid
tank in accordance with TS Figure 3.1-2, and additional makeup from either:
(1) the second boric acid tank and/or batching, or (2) a maximum of 41,800
gallons of 2,300 ppm borated water from the refueling water storage tank.
With the refueling water storage tank as the only borated water source, a
maximum of 73,800 gallons of 2,300 ppm borated water is required. However,
to be consistent with the ECCS requirements, the RWST is required to have a
minimum contained volume of 350,000 gallons during operations in MODES 1, 2,
3 and 4.
The boric acid tanks, pumps, valves, and piping contain a boric acid solution
concentration of between 3.75% and 4% by weight. To ensure that the boric
acid remains in solution, the tank fluid temperature and the process pipe
wall temperatures are monitored to ensure a temperature of 63°F, or above is
maintained. The tank fluid and pipe wall temperatures are monitored in the
main control room. A 5°F margin is provided to ensure the boron will not
precipitate out.
Should ambient temperature decrease below 63°F, the boric acid tank heaters,
in conjunction with boric acid pump recirculation, are capable of maintaining
the boric acid in the tank and in the pump at or about 63°F. A small amount
of boric acid in the flowpath between the boric acid recirculation line and
the suction line to thE~ charging pump will precipitate out, but it will not
cause flow blockage even with temperatures below 50°F.
With the RCS temperature below 350°F, one injection system is acceptable
without single failure consideration on the basis of the stable reactivity
condition of the reactor and the additional restrictions prohibiting CORE
OPERATIONS and positive reactivity change in the event the single injection
system becomes inoperable.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 1-3 TSBC SCN 05-042

===== PAGE 24 =====

REACTIVITY CONTROL SYSTEMS
BASES
o
The boron capability required below 200 F is sufficient to provide a
o
SHUTDOWN MARGIN of 1% delta k/k after xenon decay and cooldown from 200 F to
o
140 F. This condition requires either 2,600 gallons of 6,560 ppm borated
water from the boric acid storage tanks or 7,100 gallons of 2,300 ppm borated
water from the refueling water storage tank.
The 37,000 gallons limit in the refueling water storage tank for Modes 5
and 6 is based upon 21,210 gallons that is undetectable due to lower tap
location, 8,550 gallons for instrument error, 7,100 gallons required for
shutdown margin, and an additional 140 gallons due to rounding up.
The limits on contained water volume and boron concentration of the RWST
also ensure a pH value of between 7.0 and 10.0 for the solution recirculated
within containment after a LOCA. This pH band minimizes the evolution of
iodine and minimizes the effect of chloride and caustic stress corrosion on
mechanical systems and components. The contained water volume limits include
allowance for water not available because of discharge line location and other
physical characteristics.
The OPERABILITY of one boron injection system during REFUELING ensures that
this system is available for reactivity control while in MODE 6.
3/4.1.3 MOVABLE CONTROL ASSEMBLIES
The specifications of this section ensure that (1) acceptable power
distribution limits are maintained, (2) the minimum SHUTDOWN MARGIN is
maintained, and (3) limit the potential effects of rod mis-alignment on
associated accident analyses. OPERABILITY of the control rod position
indicators is required to determine control rod positions and thereby ensure
compliance with the control rod alignment and insertion limits. OPERABLE
condition for the analog rod position indicators is defined as being capable of
indicating rod position to within the allowed rod misalignment relative to the
bank demand position for a range of positions. For the Shutdown Banks and
Control Bank A this range is defined as the group demand counter indicated
position between 0 and 30 steps withdrawn inclusive, and between 200 and 230
steps withdrawn inclusive. This permits the operator to verify that the
control rods in these banks are either fully withdrawn or fully inserted, the
normal operating modes for these banks. Knowledge of these banks’ positions in
these ranges satisfies all accident analysis assumptions concerning their
position. The range for Control Bank B is defined as the group demand counter
indicated position between 0 and 30 steps withdrawn inclusive, and between 160
and 230 steps withdrawn inclusive. For Control Banks C and D the range is
defined as the group demand counter indicated position between 0 and 230 steps
withdrawn. Comparison of the group demand counters to the bank insertion limits
with verification of rod position with the analog rod position indicators
(after thermal soak after rod motion) is sufficient verification that the
control rods are above the insertion limits. The full out position will be
specified in the reload analysis for the cycle. This position will be within
the band established by FULLY WITHDRAWN and will be administratively
controlled. This band is allowable to minimize RCCA wear, consistent with
Information Notice 87-19 and RCCA examinations that were conducted during Salem
Unit 2 Spring outage 2008 (2R16) by the Salem RCCA vendor AREVA NP (Refer to
LAR S09-01).
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 1-4 Amendment No. 276
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 25 =====

REACTIVITY CONTROL SYSTEMS
BASES
The ACTION statements which permit limited variation from the basic requirements are
accompanied by additional restrictions which ensure that the original criteria are met. Mis-
alignment of a rod requires measurement of peaking factors or a restriction in THERMAL
POWER; either of these restrictions provide assurance of fuel rod integrity during continued
operation. The reactivity worth of a mis-aligned rod is limited for the remainder of the fuel cycle
to prevent exceeding the assumption used in the accident analysis.
The maximum rod drop time restriction is consistent with the assumed rod drop time used in the
accident analyses. Measurement with T >541F and with all reactor coolant pumps operating
avg
ensures that the measured drop times will be representative of insertion times experienced
during a reactor trip at operating conditions.
Control rod positions and OPERABILITY of the rod position indicators are required to be verified
in accordance with the Surveillance Frequency Control Program with more frequent verifications
required if an automatic monitoring channel is inoperable. The Surveillance Frequency is based
on operating experience, equipment reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the
Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
The terms "Shutdown Rod Position Indicator," "Analog Rod Position Indicator," "Control
Rod Position Indicator," and "Rod Position Indicator" are all used in this bases section or in
Technical Specifications, and all refer to indication driven by the output of the Analog Rod
Position Indication (ARPI) system.
One method for determining rod position are the indicators on the control console. An
alternate method of determining rod position is the plant computer. Either the control console
indicator or plant computer is sufficient to comply with this specification. The plant computer
receives the same input from ARPI as the control console indicators and provides resolution
equivalent to or better than the control console indicators. The plant computer also provides a
digital readout of rod position which eliminates interpolation and parallax errors inherent to
analog scales.
Rod demand position is indicated on the control console and the plant computer. The
rod demand position is a digital signal, namely a pulse, and is generated each time the Rod
Control System demands a rod position step change, one pulse for each rod step. The pulses
are “counted” and displayed by the control console group demand step counters. There are two
group demand step counters for each bank of rods with exception of shutdown banks C and D.
The plant computer also “counts” and displays the demand pulses. Only the group 1 demand
position of each rod bank is displayed on the plant computer as only the group 1 pulses are
routed to the plant computer. The group 1 demand position on the plant computer is, by default,
called “Cont Bank A Steps” or “S/D Bank A Steps” etc. with no reference to group 1 or group 2.
As the plant computer receives the same demand pulses from the Rod Control System as the
control console group demand step counters and provides equivalent resolution, the plant
computer “bank step” display provides an alternate method of determining group 1 rod demand
position. Either the control console group 1 demand step counter or the plant computer “bank
step” display is sufficient to comply with this specification for group 1 rod demand position. Only
the control console group 2 demand counter can be used to comply with the specification for
group 2 rod demand.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 1-5 Amendment No. 282
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 26 =====

3/4 .2 POWER~S'l'RIBOTION LIMITS
BASES
'l'h• apeci.fications of thia ••ction provide assurance of :fuel in~i.ty
dw:ing Cond:i.tion I CNo:::m.al Operation) ~d :II (Inc:identa of Mcdant. Frequency)
evtULt.s by: Ca) •-t.ing th• DNB Deai;n Crita:ia du.:i.Ag no=ial. ~•ti.on and a
ahort ta=- ~anaient.a, and CbJ l.iai~ the :fiaaioD. vaa rel. ..., :fuel paJ.iet
t-.peratur• and cladd.ing ••ch&nie&l propez:tiea to within asau:aed deai;n
c:i teria. Zn addi tiOD., l.i.ai Ung- the peK U ~ power danai 1:y cturiAg Condition
I ...ct.a provides aaaw:&D.ce that the ~t.::f..al coadi.tiona ass'IZINCI for the LOCA
anal.ya•• are aet aD.d the ECCS acceptazace c:=i.teria lJ.ai.t o:f 2200•p :la not
a,tC4Mded._
t:h•••
'l'he ~ini1:.iona of hot c:hal:IAel :factor• aa usad i.A apeci:ficatioz:a.a
ara as follows:
F (Z) Haat Flwc Hot Channel Factor, ia ~.ined aa th• J1L11Xi.a1ZJ1 local b-t
0
flwc on the •~•c• o:f a fuel. :od at core eleva.tion Z d.inded try th•
average :fuel rod heat flux, allovi.Dg for aan~act:uring toleran041a on
fuel pell•t• and rods.
Ju••
r'.111 Nuclear Enthalpy Hot C!ulnn•l Factor, .:i.a ~.i.Dad aa th• ratio of
the i.nteqi:al of linear powe.r along tha rod with the ~qheat
i.ntegrat9d power to the av.zag• rod power.
F.., (Z) bdial Peaking Factor is d•finad .. the ratio of pa.ale pow•r denai ty
to av.rag• power dansity in the horizontal. plaae at core elevation
z.
3/4. 2 .1 AXLAL FI.OX I:>IFF'Ela:NCE C:N'P)
The .l:imi.ts on AXllL Fl.OX DIFFERJ:NC:Z__aasur• that the F (Z) upper bowid
0
envelope cf the F; liait apeci.fied in the CORZ OPERATDlG LIMITS REPORT (COUt)
t.ui.es the noml.iz9d axial ~alciz,g factor i•- not elCCeadad du.::i.nq eithu noml.
operab.on or in th• event of xenon rediatributio11 following power c:h&nqea.
Tazi;•t flux: d.i.f.ference i• det.ftl.i.ned at equi.libri-wa xenon conditiou with
tha part l.anqth control rods withd:awn .froa the core. 'l'h• .full la:,1gth rods aay
be positioned wi.t:hin t.b• cor• i.D. acco%danca wi.th their reap1ctiY9 .i.Daertion
l.:i.Jait.s at$d should be :Lnaertad near their no:aal. poait.ioa. .for steady atate
l~•-
operation at high power 'fh• Yalu• of th• tarq•t .flwr: di.f.farance
th•••
obta.ined un.~ condition• divi.ded by th• fraction of RAn.D TKl1QQl. 'POWER
ia th• -target nmc difference at RA.SD ~ POWZR. .for the aaaociated con·
bU%'nup C:onditiona. Tarq•t .flwc di.f.fuen~a f~ other ~1'HAL 'POMZJ\ lavela are
obta.itlad t,y aultiplyi.Ag the ltAffD '1'HDHAI. POW.Ill -nJ.u• by~ appropnate
f'ractional THERK\L POWEJl l.-wel. ~• periodic updating of the t.arg•t .flux
di.f'ferenc• value i• n•c•••&ry to r•.flect core burnup consicuiratioiaa.
Amendment No. 197
SAI.EM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 2-1

===== PAGE 27 =====

POWER DISTRIBUTION LIMITS
BASES
Although it is intended that the plant will be operated with the AXIAL FLUX DIFFERENCE
within the target band in the COLR per Specification 3.2.1 about the target flux difference,
during rapid plant THERMAL POWER reductions, control rod motion will cause the AFD to
deviate outside of the target band at reduced THERMAL POWER levels. This deviation will not
affect the xenon redistribution sufficiently to change the envelope of peaking factors which may
be reached on a subsequent return to RATED THERMAL POWER (with the AFD within the
target band) provided the time duration of the deviation is limited. Accordingly, a 1 hour penalty
deviation limit cumulative during the previous 24 hours is provided for operation outside of the
target band but within the limits specified in the COLR while at THERMAL POWER levels
between 50% and 90% of RATED THERMAL POWER. For THERMAL POWER levels between
15% and 50% of rated THERMAL POWER, deviations of the AFD outside of the target band are
less significant. The penalty of 2 hours actual time reflects this reduced significance.
Provisions for monitoring the AFD are derived from the plant nuclear instrumentation system
through the AFD Monitor Alarm. A control room recorder continuously displays the auctioneered
high flux difference and the target band limits as a function of power level. An alarm is received
any time the auctioneered high flux difference exceeds the target band limits. Time outside the
target band is graphically presented on the strip chart.
Measurement of the target flux difference is accomplished by measuring the power
distribution when the core is at equilibrium xenon conditions, preferably at high power levels
with the control banks nearly withdrawn. This measurement provides the equilibrium xenon
axial power distribution from which the target value can be determined. The target flux
difference varies slowly with core burnup.
Alternatively, linear interpolation between the most recent measurement of the target flux
differences and a predicted end of cycle value provides a reasonable update because the AFD
changes due to burnup tend toward 0% AFD. When the predicted end of cycle AFD from the
cycle nuclear design is different from 0%, it (the prediction) may be a better value for the
interpolation.
Figure B 3/4 2-1 shows a typical monthly target band.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 2-2 Amendment No. 289
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 28 =====

INFOJQG.TION ONI.%*
"'•rcent of Rated
""'er111a1 llower
<l-
~ I-rll'IUa Dtll'llw
·---
0
0
~ux
INDICATED AXIAL DIFFERENCE
,,.,,.
■ Ill 1-1 TYPICAL tNDtCATID AXIAL l'WX Dll'trlJIIE:NCE
v•11aua TttlllMAL POWIII
•
• URR 1'0 COLlt !'IGOM 2 l'0ll ACTtalo 1.DaTI
B 3/' 2-l Aaendaent Ro. 197
SALDl-mrtT2

===== PAGE 29 =====

POWER DISTR:BUTION LIMITS
BASi;S
314.2.2 and 314.2.3 WEAT FLUX AND NUCLEAR ENTHALPY HOT CHANNEL
AND RADIAt, PEAKING FACTORS - Fo(Zl ANO ~M l
The limits on heat flux and nuclear enthalpy hot channel factors and RCS
flow rate ensure that l) the design limits on peak local power density and
o:
minimum DNBR are not exc••d•d and 2) in the event a LOCA tha peak fuel
clad temperature will not exceed the Z200°F ECCS acceptance criteria limit.
Each of these hot channel factors &re measural:lle but will normally only
be determined periodically as specifi•d in Specifications 4.2.2 and 4.2.3.
This periodic surveillance is sufficient to insure that th• limits are
maintained provided:
a. Control rod in a aingle group ft\CVe together with no individual rod
insertion differing from the group demand position by more than the
allowed rod misalignment.
b. Control rod groups are s•quenced with overlapping groups as
described in Specification 3.1.3.5.
c. The control rod insertion limits of Specifications J.l.3.4 and
3.l.3.S ■re maintained.
d. The axial power distribution. •xpressed in terms of AXIAL FLUX
DIFFERENCE, ia maintained within the limits.
The relaxation in ~AH es a function ot THERMAL POWER allows changes in
the radial power shape for all p•rmis1ible rod insertion limits. ~~ will
b• maintained within its limits provided conditions a through d above, arQ
maintained.
When an Fg me■surement is taken. both experim•ntal error and
manufacturing tolerance must be allowed for. Five perc■nt is the appropriate
«llowanee for a f~ll core map taken with the incor• detector flux mapping
system and 31 i• the appropriate allowance tor manufacturing tolerance. For
m•asurements obt•ined u•ing th• Power Distribution Monitoring Sy•tem jPDMS).
the appropriate m•asurement uncertainty is detel'lftined using the measuram•nt
uncertainty methodology contained in WCAP 12472•P-A. The cycle and plant
uncertainty calculation information needed to support the PDMS calculation is
contained in the COLR. The PDMS will automatically calculate and apply the
corr•ct measurement uncertainty, and apply a 31 allowance for manufacturing
tolerance.
When FNoH is maasured, •xperimental error must be allowed for and is
obtained from the COLR wh■n using the PDMS or the incora d•tection ey1tem.
The specified limit for p>'tlH also contains an 81 allowance to~ uncertainties
wru,ch mean that norm•l operation will result in r" 414 S F11PTt1Hll.OB. Where FRPTtlH
is the limit at RATED THERMAL POWER (RTP) specified in the CORE OPERATING
LIMITS REPORT (COLR}. The 81 allowance is based on the following
considarations;
SA.LEM - t1NIT 2 B 3/t 2-4 Amendment No, 218

===== PAGE 30 =====

POWER DISTRIBUTION LIMITS
BASES
3/4.2.2 and 3/4.2.3 HEAT FLUX AND NUCLEAR ENTHALPY HOT CHANNEL AND
N
RADIAL PEAKING FACTORS - F (Z) AND F (Continued)
Q H
a. abnormal perturbations in the radial power shape, such as from rod
N
misalignment, effect F more directly than F .
H Q
b. although rod movement has a direct influence upon limiting F to within its limit,
Q
N
such control is not readily available to limit F , and
H
c. errors in prediction for control power shape detected during startup physics test
can be compensated for in F by restricting axial flux distributions. This
Q
N
compensation for F is less rapidly available.
H
N
The appropriate measurement uncertainty for F obtained using PDMS is determined using
ΔH
the measurement uncertainty methodology contained in WCAP 12472-P-A. The cycle and plant
specific uncertainty information needed to support the PDMS calculation is contained in the
COLR. The PDMS will automatically calculate and apply the correct measurement uncertainty
N
to the measured F .
ΔH
The radial peaking factor F (Z) is measured periodically to provide assurance that the hot
xy
channel factor F (Z), remains within its limit. The F limit for RATED THERMAL POWER
Q xy
RTP
F , as provided in COLR per specification 6.9.1.9, was determined from expected power
xy
control maneuvers over the full range of burnup conditions in the core.
The core plane regions applicable to an F evaluation exclude the following, measured in
xy
percent of core height (from the bottom of the fuel):
a. Lower core region, from 0% to 8% inclusive,
b. Upper core region, from 92% to 100% inclusive,
c. Grid plane regions at ± 2%, inclusive, and
d. Core plane regions within ± 2% of core height (± 2.88 inches) about the bank demand
position of the bank “D” control rods.
3/4.2.4 QUADRANT POWER TILT RATIO
The quadrant power tilt ratio limit assures that the radial power distribution satisfies the design
values used in the power capability analysis. Radial power distribution measurements are
made during startup testing and periodically during power operation.
SALEM – UNIT 2 B 3/4 2-5 TSBC S2015-072

===== PAGE 31 =====

POWER DISTRIBUTION LIMITS
BASES
The limit of 1.02 at which corrective action is required provides DNB and linear heat
generation rate protection with x-y plane power tilts. A limiting tilt of 1.025 can be tolerated
before the margin for uncertainty in F is depleted. The limit of 1.02 was selected to provide an
Q
allowance for the uncertainty associated with the indicated power tilt.
The 2 hour time allowance for operation with a tilt condition greater than 1.02 but less than
1.09 is provided to allow identification and correction of a dropped or misaligned rod. In the
event such action does not correct the tilt, the margin for uncertainty on F is reinstated by
Q
reducing the power by 3% from RATED THERMAL POWER for each percent of tilt in excess of
1.0.
3/4.2.5 DNB PARAMETERS
The limits on the DNB related parameters assure that each of the parameters are maintained
with the normal steady state envelope of operation assumed in the transient and accident
analyses. The limits are consistent with the initial FSAR assumptions and have been
analytically demonstrated adequate to maintain a minimum DNBR of the design DNBR value
throughout each analyzed transient.
The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment reliability, and
plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 2-6 Amendment No. 282
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 32 =====

3/4.3 INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
3/4.3.1 and 3/4.3.2 PROTECTIVE AND ENGINEERED SAFETY FEATURES (ESF)
INSTRUMENTATION
The OPERABILITY of the protective and ESF instrumentation systems and interlocks ensure
that 1) the associated ESF action and/or reactor trip will be initiated when the parameter
monitored by each channel or combination thereof exceeds its setpoint, 2) the specified
coincidence logic and sufficient redundancy is maintained to permit a channel to be out of
service for testing or maintenance consistent with maintaining an appropriate level of reliability
of the Reactor Protection and Engineered Safety Features instrumentation and, 3) sufficient
system functional capability is available from diverse parameters.
The OPERABILITY of these systems is required to provide the overall reliability, redundancy
and diversity assumed available in the facility design for the protection and mitigation of
accident and transient conditions. The integrated operation of each of these systems is
consistent with the assumptions used in the accident analyses.
The Trip Setpoints are the nominal values at which the bistables are set. Any bistable is
considered to be properly adjusted when the "as-left" value is within the band for CHANNEL
CALIBRATION accuracy (i.e., ± rack calibration + comparator setting accuracy).
The Trip Setpoints used in the bistables are based on the analytical limits stated in the UFSAR.
The selection of these Trip Setpoints is such that adequate protection is provided when all
sensor and processing time delays are taken into account. To allow for calibration tolerances,
instrumentation uncertainties, instrument drift, and severe environment errors for those Reactor
Protection System (RPS) channels that must function in harsh environments as defined by 10
CFR 50.49, the Trip Setpoints and Allowable Values specified in the Technical Specification
Limiting Conditions for Operation (LCO's) are conservatively adjusted with respect to the
analytical limits. The methodology used to calculate the Trip Setpoints is consistent with
Instrument Society of America standard ISA-S67.04-1982, which is endorsed via NRC
Regulatory Guide 1.105, Rev. 2. The actual nominal Trip Setpoint entered into the bistable is
more conservative than that specified by the Allowable Value to account for changes in random
measurement errors detectable by a CHANNEL FUNCTIONAL TEST. One example of such a
change in measurement error is drift during the surveillance interval. If the measured setpoint
does not exceed the Allowable Value, the bistable is considered OPERABLE.
Setpoints in accordance with the Allowable Value ensure that the safety analyses which
demonstrate that safety limits are not violated remain valid (provided the unit is operated within
the LCO's at the onset of any design basis event and the equipment functions as designed).
The Trip Setpoints and Allowable Values listed in the LCO's incorporate all of the known
uncertainties applicable for each channel. The magnitudes of these uncertainties are factored
into the determination of each Trip Setpoint. All field sensors and signal processing equipment
for these channels are assumed to operate within the allowances of these uncertainty
magnitudes.
The surveillance requirements specified for these systems ensure that the overall system
functional capability is maintained comparable to the original design standards. The periodic
surveillance tests are sufficient to demonstrate this capability. Two footnotes are added to the
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-1 Amendment No. 294
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 33 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
CHANNEL FUNCTIONAL TEST and CHANNEL CALIBRATION for Functional Units 5 and 6 of
Table 4.3-1. These footnotes are consistent with Technical Specification Task Force (TSTF)
Change Traveler TSTF-493, “Clarify Application of Setpoint Methodology for LSSS Functions.”
The first footnote requires evaluation of channel performance for the condition where the as-
found setting for the channel setpoint is outside its as-found tolerance, but conservative with
respect to the Allowable Value. The channel evaluation verifies that channel performance
continues to satisfy analysis assumptions and channel performance assumptions within the
setpoint methodology. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure confidence in channel
performance prior to returning the channel to service. For channels determined to be
OPERABLE but degraded, after returning the channel to service the performance of these
channels will be evaluated under the Corrective Action Program. Entry into the Corrective Action
Program will ensure required review and documentation of the condition. The second footnote
requires that the as-left setting for the channel be returned to within the as-left tolerance of the
nominal Trip Setpoint. This ensures that sufficient margin is maintained to the safety limit and/or
analytical limit. If the as-left channel setting cannot be returned to within the as-left tolerance of
the nominal Trip Setpoint, then the channel shall be declared inoperable. The as-found
tolerance for this function is calculated using the square root sum of the squares combination of
uncertainty terms (rack calibration accuracy, rack measurement and test equipment accuracy,
rack comparator setting accuracy, and rack drift). The as-left tolerance for this function is
calculated using the square root sum of the squares combination of uncertainty terms (rack
calibration accuracy, rack measurement and test equipment accuracy, and rack comparator
setting accuracy). The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment
reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
Specified surveillance and maintenance outage times have been determined in accordance with
WCAP-10271, "Evaluation of Surveillance Frequencies and Out of Service Times for the
Reactor Protection Instrumentation System," and Supplements to that report. WCAP-14333-P-
A, Revision 1, “Probabilistic Risk Analysis of the RPS and ESFAS Test Times and Completion
Times,” and WCAP-15376-P-A, Revision 1, “Risk-Informed Assessment of the RTS and ESFAS
Surveillance Test Intervals and Reactor Trip Breaker Test and Completion Times” increased the
completion times and bypass test times. Out of service times were determined based on
maintaining an appropriate level of reliability of the Reactor Protection System and Engineered
Safety Features instrumentation.
The verification of response time provides assurance that the reactor trip and the engineered
safety features actuation associated with each channel is completed within the time limit
assumed in the safety analysis. The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience,
equipment reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control
Program. Response time acceptance criteria have been relocated to UFSAR Section 7.2 tables
and 7.3 tables. No credit is taken in the analysis for those channels with response times
indicated as not applicable (i.e., N.A.). The Note 8 response times for feedwater isolation are
based on WCAP-16503, “Salem Unit 1 and Unit 2 Containment Response to LOCA and MSLB
for Containment Fan Cooler Unit (CFCU) Margin Recovery Project,” Revision 3, (LCR S06-10).
SGFP trip and FIV closure are credited in the containment analyses for LOCA and MSLB in
case an FRV fails open.
Response time may be verified by actual response time tests in any series of sequential,
overlapping or total channel measurements, or by the summation of allocated sensor response
times with actual response time tests on the remainder of the channel. Allocations for sensor
response times may be obtained from: (1) historical records based on acceptable response time
tests (hydraulic, noise, or power interrupt tests), (2) inplace, onsite, or offsite (e.g. vendor) test
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-1a Amendment No. 306
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 34 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
measurements, or (3) utilizing vendor engineering specifications. WCAP-13632-P-A, Revision
2, “Elimination of Pressure Sensor Response Time Testing Requirements” provides the basis
and methodology for using allocated sensor response times in the overall verification of the
channel response time for specific sensors identified in the WCAP. Response time verification
for other sensor types, must be demonstrated by test.
The allocation for sensor response times must be verified prior to placing the component in
operational service and re-verified following maintenance that may adversely affect response
time. In general, electrical repair work does not impact response time provided the parts used
for repair are of the same type and value. One example where response time could be affected
is replacing the sensing assembly of a transmitter. The response time may be verified for
components that replace the components that were previously evaluated in Rev. 2 of WCAP-
13632-P-A provided that the components have been evaluated in accordance with the NRC
approved methodology as discussed in Attachment 1 to TSTF-569, “Methodology to Eliminate
Pressure Sensor and Protection Channel (for Westinghouse Plants Only) Response Time
Testing.”
Channel testing in a bypassed condition shall be performed without lifting leads or jumpering
bistables.
The CHANNEL CALIBRATION surveillance for the Power Range Neutron Flux Function
instrumentation is modified by Note 17. Note 17 states that in MODES 1 and 2 the SSPS input
relays are excluded from this surveillance when the installed bypass test capability is used to
perform this surveillance. When the installed bypass test capability is used, the channel is
tested in bypass versus tripped condition. To preclude placing the channel in a tripped
condition, the SSPS input relays are excluded from this surveillance. The exclusion of the SSPS
input relays from this test is intended to reduce the potential for an inadvertent reactor trip
during surveillance testing. Therefore, the exclusion of the SSPS input relays from the
surveillance is only applicable in MODES 1 and 2. The SSPS input relays must be included in
the CHANNEL CALIBRATION surveillance at least once every 18 months.
The CHANNEL FUNCTIONAL TEST surveillances for the Power Range Neutron Flux and
Power Range Neutron Flux High Positive Rate Function Instrumentation are modified by Note
18. Note 18 states that the SSPS input relays are excluded from this surveillance when the
installed bypass test capability is used to perform this surveillance. When the installed bypass
test capability is used, the channel is tested in a bypassed versus tripped condition. To preclude
placing the channel in a tripped condition, the SSPS input relays are excluded from this
surveillance. The exclusion of the SSPS input relays from this test is intended to reduce the
potential for an inadvertent reactor trip during surveillance testing. The SSPS input relays must
be included in the CHANNEL CALIBRATION surveillance at least once every 18 months.
The Intermediate Range (IR) Neutron Flux trip Function ensures that protection is provided
against an uncontrolled RCCA bank rod withdrawal accident from a subcritical condition during
startup. This trip Function provides redundant protection to the Power Range (PR) Neutron Flux
- Low Setting trip Function. In MODE 1 below the P-10 setpoint, and in MODE 2 above the P-6
setpoint, when there is a potential for an uncontrolled RCCA bank rod withdrawal accident
during reactor startup, the IR Neutron Flux trip must be OPERABLE. Above the P-10 setpoint,
the PR Neutron Flux - High Setpoint trip function provides core protection for a rod withdrawal
accident. In MODE 2 below the P-6 setpoint, the Source Range (SR) Neutron Flux Trip
provides core protection for reactivity accidents. In MODE 3, 4, or 5, the IR Neutron Flux trip
does not have to be OPERABLE because the control rods must be fully inserted and only the
shutdown rods may be withdrawn. The reactor cannot be started up in this condition.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-1b Amendment No. 321
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 35 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
The 24 hour Action times for one inoperable IR channel allow for a slow and controlled power
adjustment above P-10 or below P-6 and take into account the redundant capability afforded by
the OPERABLE IR channel and its low probability of failure during this period.
If both IR channels are inoperable with THERMAL POWER between P-6 and P-10, immediate
suspension of operations involving positive reactivity additions is required due to loss of all IR
trip protection. Normal plant control operations that individually add limited positive reactivity
(e.g. temperature or boron fluctuations associated with RCS inventory management or
temperature control) are allowed by this Action provided they are accounted for in the calculated
SHUTDOWN MARGIN. THERMAL POWER must also be reduced to below P-6 within two
hours. This Action time will allow a slow and controlled power reduction to less than the P-6
setpoint and takes into account the low probability of occurrence of an event during this period
that may require the protection afforded by the IR Neutron Flux trip.
The LCO requirements for the SR Neutron Flux trip Function in Mode 2 ensure that protection is
provided against an uncontrolled RCCA bank rod withdrawal accident from a subcritical
condition during startup. This trip Function provides redundant protection to the Power Range
Neutron Flux – Low Setting trip Function. In MODE 2 when below the P-6 setpoint, the SR
Neutron Flux trip must be OPERABLE. Two OPERABLE channels are sufficient to ensure no
single random failure will disable this trip Function. If one SR channel is inoperable, immediate
suspension of operations involving positive reactivity additions is required due to loss of
redundancy in the SR trip function. Normal plant control operations that individually add limited
positive reactivity (e.g. temperature or boron fluctuations associated with RCS inventory
management or temperature control) are allowed by this Action provided they are accounted for
in the calculated SHUTDOWN MARGIN. If both SR channels are inoperable, trip protection
from reactivity events is compromised and the Reactor Trip Breakers (RTBs) must immediately
be opened to place the core in a stable, shutdown condition.
The SR trip function is redundant to the PR Neutron Flux - Low Setting trip Function for over
power protection in MODE 3, when RTBs are closed and the Control Rod Drive System (CRDS)
is capable of rod withdrawal. In Modes 4 and 5 with RTBs closed and CRDS capable of rod
withdrawal, only the SR trip function provides over power protection. These Neutron Flux trip
functions provide over power protection for control rod withdrawal from subcritical. If one SR
channel is inoperable, within 48 hours either restore the inoperable SR channel to OPERABLE
status or initiate actions to fully insert all control rods and place the CRDS in a condition
incapable of rod withdrawal within the following hour. If both SR channels are inoperable, the
RTBs must immediately be opened to place the core in a stable, shutdown condition. In
MODES 3, 4, and 5 with RTBs open and the CRDS incapable of rod withdrawal, the trip function
of the SR or PR channels are not required to be OPERABLE and the SR channels provide flux
monitoring functions only.
3/4.3.3 MONITORING INSTRUMENTATION
3/4.3.3.1 RADIATION MONITORING INSTRUMENTATION
The OPERABILITY of the radiation monitoring channels ensures that 1) the radiation levels are
continually measured in the areas served by the individual channels and 2) the alarm or
automatic action is initiated when the radiation level trip setpoint is exceeded.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-1c Amendment No. 316
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 36 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
3/4.3.3.1 RADIATION MONITORING INSTRUMENTATION (Continued)
In the postulated Fuel Handling Accident, the revised dose calculations, performed using
10 CFR 50.67 and Regulatory Guide 1.183, Alternative Source Term, do not take credit for
automatic containment purge isolation thus allowing for continuous monitoring of containment
activity until containment closure is achieved. If required, containment purge isolation can be
initiated manually from the control room.
CROSS REFERENCE - TABLE 3.3-6
T/S Table Instrument Description Acceptable RMS
Item No. Channels
1a Fuel Storage Area 2R5 or 2R9
1b DELETED
2a1a Containment Gaseous Activity Purge & Pressure/Vacuum 2R12A or 2R41A,
Relief Isolation B and D(1) (2)
2a1b Containment Gaseous Activity RCS Leakage Detection 2R12A
2a2a (NOT USED)
2a2b Containment Air Particulate Activity RCS Leakage 2R11A
Detection
2b1 Noble Gas Effluent Medium Range Auxiliary Building 2R41B & D(1)(3)(5)
Exhaust System (Plant Vent)
2b2 Noble Gas Effluent High Range Auxiliary Building 2R41C & D(1)(4)(5)
Exhaust System (Plant Vent)
2b3 Noble Gas Effluent Condenser Exhaust System 2R15
3a Unit 2 Control Room Intake Channel 1 (to Unit 2 Monitor) 2R1B-1
Unit 2 Control Room Intake Channel 2 (to Unit 1 Monitor) 1R1B-2
Unit 1 Control Room Intake Channel 1 (to Unit 1 Monitor) 1R1B-1
Unit 1 Control Room Intake Channel 2 (to Unit 2 Monitor) 2R1B-2
(1) The channels listed are required to be operable to meet a single operable
channel for the Technical Specification’s "Minimum Channels Operable"
requirement.
(2) For Modes 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5, the setpoint applies to 2R41D per Specification 3.3.3.9.
The measurement range applies to 2R41A and B which display in μCi/cc using
the appropriate channel conversion factor from cpm to μCi/cc.
(3) 2R41D is the setpoint channel; 2R41B is the measurement channel.
(4) 2R41D is the setpoint channel; 2R41C is the measurement channel
(5) The release rate channel 2R41D setpoint value of 2E4 uCi/sec is within the
bounds of the concentration setpoint values listed in Table 3.3-6 for normal and
accident plant vent flow rates.
SALEM UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-2 TSBC S2013-057

===== PAGE 37 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
Immediate action(s), in accordance with the LCO Action Statements, means that
the required action should be pursued without delay and in a controlled manner.
3/4.3.3.2
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.3
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.4
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.5 REMOTE SHUTDOWN INSTRUMENTATION
The OPERABILITY of the remote shutdown instrumentation ensures that sufficient capability is
available to permit shutdown and maintenance of HOT STANDBY of
the facility from locations outside of the control room. This capability is required in the event
control room habitability is lost and is consistent with General Design Criterion 19 of 10 CFR 50.
3/4.3.3.6
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.7 ACCIDENT MONITORING INSTRUMENTATION
The OPERABILITY of the accident monitoring instrumentation ensures that sufficient
information is available on selected plant parameters to monitor
and assess these variables following an accident. This capability is
consistent with the Recommendations of Regulatory Guide 1.97, “Instrumentation
for Light-Water-Cooled Nuclear Power Plants to Assess Plant Conditions During
and Following an Accident," December 1975 and NUREG-0578,"TMI-2 Lessons
Learned Task Force Status Report and Short-Term Recommendations."
The Wide Range Neutron Flux Monitors are the Gamma-Metrics Post-Accident Neutron
Monitors.
SALEM – UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-3 Amendment No. 301
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 38 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
3/4.3.3.8 RADIOACTIVE LIQUID EFFLUENT MONITORING INSTRUMENTATION
The purpose of tank level indicating devices is to assure the detection and control of leaks that if
not controlled could potentially result in the transport of radioactive materials to unrestricted
areas.
3/4.3.3.9
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.10
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.11
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.12
THIS SECTION DELETED
3/4.3.3.13
THIS SECTION DELETED
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-3a Amendment No. 323
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 39 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
3/4.3.4 Deleted
3/4.3.3.14 POWER DISTRIBUTION MONFTORING SYSTEM (PDMS)
The Power Distribution Monitoring System (PDMS) provides core monitoring of the limiting
parameters. The PDMS continuous core power distribution measurement methodology begins
with the periodic generation of a highly accurate 3-D nodal simulation of the current reactor
power distribution. The simulated reactor power distribution is then continuously adjusted by
nodal and thermocouple calibration factors derived from an incore power distribution
measurement obtained using the incore movable detectors to produce a highly accurate power
distribution measurement. The nodal calibration factors are updated in accordance with the
Surveillance Frequency Control Program. Between calibrations, the fidelity of the measured
power distribution is maintained via adjustment to the calibrated power distribution provided by
continuously input plant and core condition information. The plant and core condition data
utilized by the PDMS is cross checked using redundant information to provide a robust basis for
continued operation. The loop inlet temperature is generated by averaging the respective
temperatures from each of the loops, excluding any bad data. The core exit thermocouples
provide many readings across the core and by the nature of their usage with the PDMS,
smoothing of the measured data and elimination of bad data is performed with the Surface
Spline fit. PDMS uses the NIS Power Range excore detectors to provide information on the
axial power distribution. Hence, the PDMS averages the data from the four Power Range
excore detectors and eliminates any bad excore detector data.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-4 Amendment No. 282
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 40 =====

INSTRUMENTATION
BASES
The bases for the operability requirements of the PDMS is to provide assurance of the accuracy
and reliability of the core parameters measured and calculated by the PDMS core power
distribution monitor function. These requirements fall under four categories:
1. Assure an adequate number of operable critical sensors.
2. Assure sufficiently accurate calibration of these sensors.
3. Assure an adequate calibration database regarding the number of data sets.
4. Assure the overall accuracy of the calibration.
The minimum number of required plant and core condition inputs include the following:
1. Control Bank Positions.
2. At least 50% of the cold leg temperatures.
3. At least 75% of the signals from the power range excore detector channels
(comprised of top and bottom detector section).
4. Reactor Power Level.
5. A minimum number and distribution of operable core exit thermocouples.
6. A minimum number and distribution of measured fuel assembly power
distribution information obtained using the incore movable detectors is
incorporated in the nodal model calibration information.
The sensor calibration of Items 1, 2, 3, and 4 above are covered under other specifications.
Calibration of the core exit thermocouples is accomplished in two parts. The first being a sensor
specific correction to K-type thermocouple temperature indications based on data from a cross
calibration of the thermocouple temperature indications to the average RCS temperature
measured via the RTDs under isothermal RCS conditions. The second part of the
thermocouple calibration is the generation of thermocouple flow mixing factors that cause the
radial power distribution measured via the thermocouples to agree with the radial power
distribution from a full core flux map measured using the incore movable detectors. This
calibration is updated in accordance with the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
The operability requirements previously contained in Specification 3.3.3.2 have been moved to
UFSAR Section 7.7.2.8 as part of Amendment 265.
SALEM – UNIT 2 B 3/4 3-5 Amendment No. 282
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 41 =====

3/4.4 REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.1 REACTOR COOLANT LOOPS AND COOLANT CIRCULATION
The plant is designed to operate with all reactor coolant loops in operation, meet the
DNB design criteria during all normal operations and anticipated transients. In MODES 1 and 2
with less than all coolant loops in operation, this specification requires that the plant be in at
least HOT STANDBY within 1 hour.
In MODE 3, a single reactor coolant loop provides sufficient heat removal for removing
decay heat; but, single failure considerations require all loops be in operation whenever the rod
control system is energized and at least one loop be in operation when the rod control system is
deenergized.
In MODE 4, a single reactor coolant loop or RHR loop provides sufficient heat removal
for removing decay heat; but, single failure considerations require that at least 2 loops be
OPERABLE. Thus, if the reactor coolant loops are not OPERABLE, this specification requires
that two RHR loops be OPERABLE.
In MODE 5, single failure considerations require that two RHR loops be OPERABLE.
For support systems: Service Water (SW) and Component Cooling (CC), component
redundancy is necessary to ensure no single active component failure will cause the loss of
Decay Heat Removal. One piping path of SW and CC is adequate when it supports both RHR
loops. The support systems needed before entering into the desired configuration (e.g., one
service water loop out for maintenance in Modes 5 and 6) are controlled by procedures, and
include the following:
 A requirement that two RHR, two CC and two SW pumps, powered from two different
vital buses be kept operable
 A listing of the active (air/motor operated) valves in the affected flow path to be locked
open or disabled
Note that four filled reactor coolant loops, with at least two steam generators with at least
their secondary side water level greater than or equal to 5% (narrow range), may be substituted
for one residual heat removal loop. This ensures that a single failure does not cause a loss of
decay heat removal.
The operation of one Reactor Coolant Pump or one RHR Pump provides adequate flow
to ensure mixing, prevent stratification and produce gradual reactivity changes during Boron
concentration reductions in the Reactor Coolant System. The reactivity change rate associated
with Boron concentration reductions will, therefore, be within the capability of operator
recognition and control.
The restrictions on starting a Reactor Coolant Pump below P-7 with one or more RCS
cold legs less than or equal to the POPS enable temperature specified in the PTLR are provided
to prevent RCS pressure transients, caused by energy additions from the secondary system,
which could exceed the limits of Appendix G to 10CFR Part 50. The RCS will be protected
against overpressure transients and will not exceed the limits of Appendix G by either (1)
restricting the water volume in the pressurizer (thereby providing a volume into which the
primary coolant can expand, or (2) by restricting the starting of Reactor Coolant Pumps to those
times when secondary water temperature in each steam generator is less than 50F above each
of the RCS cold leg temperatures.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-1 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 42 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.2 and 3/4.4.3 SAFETY VALVES
The pressurizer code safety valves operate to prevent the RCS from being pressurized
above its Safety Limit of 2735 psig. Each safety valve is designed to relieve 420,000 pounds
per hour of saturated steam at the valve setpoint. The relief capacity of a single safety valve is
adequate to relieve any overpressure condition which could occur during shutdown. In the
event that no safety valves are OPERABLE, an operating RHR loop, connected to the RCS,
provides overpressure relief capability and will prevent RCS overpressurization. In addition, the
Overpressure Protection System provides a diverse means of protection against RCS
overpressurization at low temperature. While in Mode 5 the safety valve requirement may be
met by establishing a vent path of equivalent relieving capacity when no code safety valves are
OPERABLE.
During operation, all pressurizer code safety valves must be OPERABLE to prevent the RCS
from being pressurized above its safety limit of 2735 psig. The combined relief capacity of all of
these valves is greater than the maximum surge rate resulting from a complete loss of load
assuming no reactor trip until the first Reactor Protective System trip setpoint is reached (i.e., no
credit is taken for a direct reactor trip on the loss of load) and also assuming no operation of the
power operated relief valves or steam dump valves.
Demonstration of the safety valves lift settings will occur only during shutdown and will be
performed in accordance with the provisions of Section XI of the ASME Boiler and Pressure
Code.
Surveillance testing allows a ± 3% lift setpoint tolerance. However, to allow for drift during
subsequent operation, the valves must be reset to within ± 1% of the lift setpoint following
testing.
3/4.4.4 PRESSURIZER
The limit on the maximum water volume in the pressurizer assures that the parameter is
maintained within the normal steady-state envelope of operation assumed in the SAR. The limit
is consistent with the initial SAR assumptions. The Surveillance Frequency is based on
operating experience, equipment reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the
Surveillance Frequency Control Program. The maximum water volume also ensures that a
steam bubble is formed and thus the RCS is not a hydraulically solid system. The requirement
that a minimum number of pressurizer heaters be OPERABLE enhances the capability of the
plant to control RCS pressure and establish natural circulation.
3/4.4.5 RELIEF VALVES
The OPERABILITY of the PORVs and block valves is determined on the basis of their being
capable of performing the following functions:
A. Manual control of PORVs to control reactor coolant system pressure. This is a
function that is used for the steam generator tube rupture accident and for plant
shutdown.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-2 Amendment No. 282
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 43 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.5 RELIEF VALVES (continued)
B. Automatic control of PORVs to control reactor coolant system pressure. This is a
function that reduces challenges to the code safety valves for overpressurization
events, including an inadvertent actuation of the Safety Injection System.
C. Maintaining the integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary. This is a
function that is related to controlling identified leakage and ensuring the ability to
detect unidentified reactor coolant pressure boundary leakage.
D. Manual control of the block valve to : (1) unblock an isolated PORV to allow it to
be used for manual and automatic control of Reactor Coolant System pressure
(Items A & B), and (2) isolate a PORV with excessive seat leakage (Item C).
E. Manual control of a block valve to isolate a stuck-open PORV.
3/4.4.6 STEAM GENERATOR (SG) TUBE INTEGRITY
The LCO requires that SG tube integrity be maintained. The LCO also requires that all SG
tubes that satisfy the plugging criteria be plugged in accordance with the Steam Generator
Program.
During an SG inspection, any inspected tube that satisfies the Steam Generator Program
plugging criteria is removed from service by plugging. If a tube was determined to satisfy the
plugging criteria but was not plugged, the tube may still have tube integrity.
In the context of this Specification, a SG tube is defined as the entire length of the tube,
including the tube wall, between the tube-to-tubesheet weld at the tube inlet and the tube-to-
tubesheet weld at the tube outlet. The tube-to-tubesheet weld is not considered part of the
tube.
A SG tube has tube integrity when it satisfies the SG performance criteria. The SG
performance criteria are defined in Specification 6.8.4.i, “Steam Generator (SG) Program,” and
describe acceptable SG tube performance. The Steam Generator Program also provides the
evaluation process for determining conformance with the SG performance criteria.
There are three SG performance criteria: structural integrity, accident induced leakage, and
operational leakage. Failure to meet any one of these criteria is considered failure to meet the
LCO.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-3 Amendment No. 291
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 44 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
The structural integrity performance criterion provides a margin of safety against
tube burst or collapse under normal and accident conditions, and ensures structural
integrity of the SG tubes under all anticipated transients included in the design
specification. Tube burst is defined as, "The gross structural failure of the tube
wall. The condition typically corresponds to an unstable opening displacement
(e.g., opening area increased in response to constant pressure) accompanied by
ductile (plastic) tearing of the tube material at the ends of the degradation."
Tube collapse is defined as, "For the load displacement curve for a given
structure, collapse occurs at the top of the load versus displacement curve where
the slope of the curve becomes zero." The structural integrity performance
criterion provides guidance on assessing loads that significantly affect burst or
collapse. In that context, the term "significant" is defined as, "An accident
loading condition other than differential pressure is considered significant when
the addition of such loads in the assessment of the structural integrity
performance criterion could cause a lower structural limit or limiting
burst/collapse condition to be established.° For tube integrity evaluations,
except for circumferential degradation, axial thermal loads are classified as
secondary loads. For circumferential degradation, the classification of axial
thermal loads as primary or secondary loads will be evaluated on a case-by-case
basis. The division between primary and secondary classifications will be based on
detailed analysis and/or testing.
Structural integrity requires that the primary membrane stress intensity in a tube
not exceed the yield strength for all ASME Code, Section III, Service Level A
(normal operating conditions) and Service Level B (upset or abnormal conditions)
transients included in the design specification. This includes safety factors and
applicable design basis loads based on ASME Code, Section III, Subsection NB and
draft Reg. Guide 1.121.
The accident induced leakage performance criterion ensures that the primary-to-
secondary leakage caused by a design basis accident, other than a steam generator
tube rupture (SGTR), is within the accident analysis assumptions. The accident
analysis assumes that accident induced leakage does not exceed 1 gpm per SG. The
accident induced leakage rate includes any primary-to-secondary leakage existing
prior to the accident in addition to primary-to-secondary leakage induced during
the accident.
The operational leakage performance criterion provides an observable indication of
SG tube conditions during plant operation. The limit on operational leakage is
contained in LCO 3.4.7.2, "Operational Leakage,0 and limits primary-to-secondary
leakage through any one SG to 150 gallons per day. This limit is based on the
assumption that a single crack leaking this amount would not propagate to a SGTR
under the stress conditions of a LOCA or a main steam line break. If this amount
of leakage is due to more than one crack, the cracks are very small, and the above
assumption is conservative.
The ACTION requirements are modified by a Note clarifying that the Actions may be
entered independently for each SG tube. This is acceptable because the Action
requirements provide appropriate compensatory actions for each affected SG tube.
Complying with the Action requirements may allow for continued operation, and
subsequent affected SG tubes are governed by subsequent Action requirements.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-3a Amendment No. 262
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 45 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
If it is discovered that one or more SG tubes examined in an inservice inspection satisfy the
tube plugging criteria but were not plugged in accordance with the Steam Generator Program,
an evaluation of SG tube integrity of the affected tube(s) must be made. Steam generator tube
integrity is based on meeting the SG performance criteria described in the Steam Generator
Program. The SG plugging criteria define limits on SG tube that allow for flaw growth between
inspections while still providing assurance that the SG performance criteria will continue to be
met. In order to determine if a SG tube that should have been plugged has tube integrity, an
evaluation must be completed that demonstrates that the SG performance criteria will continue
to be met until the next refueling outage or SG tube inspection. The tube integrity determination
is based on the estimated condition of the tube at the time the situation is discovered and the
estimated growth of the degradation prior to the next SG tube inspection. An action time of 7
days is sufficient to complete the evaluation while minimizing the risk of plant operation with a
SG tube that may not have tube integrity. If the evaluation determines that the affected tube(s)
have tube integrity, plant operation is allowed to continue until the next refueling outage or SG
inspection provided the inspection interval continues to be supported by an operational
assessment that reflects the affected tubes. However, the affected tube(s) must be plugged
prior to entering HOT SHUTDOWN following the next refueling outage or SG inspection. This
allowed outage time is acceptable since operation until the next inspection is supported by the
operational assessment.
If SG tube integrity is not being maintained or the Action requirements are not met, the reactor
must be brought to HOT STANDBY within 6 hours and COLD SHUTDOWN within 36 hours.
The action times are reasonable based on operating experience, to reach the desired plant
conditions from full power conditions in an orderly manner and without challenging plant
systems.
During shutdown periods the SGs are inspected as required by surveillance requirements and
the Steam Generator Program. NEI 97-06, “Steam Generator Program Guidelines,” and its
referenced EPRI Guidelines, establish the content of the Steam Generator Program. Use of the
Steam Generator Program ensures that the inspection is appropriate and consistent with
accepted industry practices.
During SG inspections a condition monitoring assessment of the SG tubes is performed. The
condition monitoring assessment determines the “as found” condition of the SG tubes. The
purpose of the condition monitoring assessment is to ensure that the SG performance criteria
have been met for the previous operating period. The Steam Generator Program determines
the scope of the inspection and the methods used to determine whether the tubes contain flaws
satisfying the tube plugging criteria. Inspection scope (i.e., which tubes or areas of tubing within
the SG are to be inspected) is a function of existing and potential degradation locations. The
Steam Generator Program also specifies the inspection methods to be used to find potential
degradation. Inspection methods are a function of degradation morphology, nondestructive
examination (NDE) technique capabilities and inspection locations. The Frequency is
determined by the operational assessment and other limits in the SG examination guidelines.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-3b Amendment No. 291
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 46 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
The Steam Generator Program uses information on existing degradations and growth rates to
determine an inspection Frequency that provides reasonable assurance that the tubing will meet
the SG performance criteria at the next scheduled inspection. In addition, Specification 6.8.4.i
contains prescriptive requirements concerning inspection intervals to provide added assurance
that the SG performance criteria will be met between scheduled inspections. If crack indications
are found in any SG tube, the maximum inspection interval for all affected and potentially
affected SGs is restricted by Specification 6.8.4.i until subsequent inspections support extending
the inspection interval.
During an SG inspection, any inspected tube that satisfies the Steam Generator Program
plugging criteria is removed from service by plugging. The tube plugging criteria delineated in
Specification 6.8.4.i are intended to ensure that tubes accepted for continued service satisfy the
SG performance criteria with allowance for error in size measurement and future growth. In
addition, the tube plugging criteria, in conjunction with other elements of the Steam Generator
Program, ensure that the SG performance criteria will continue to be met until the next
inspection of the subject tube(s). NEI 97-06 provides guidance for performing operational
assessments to verify that the tubes remaining in service will continue to meet the SG
performance criteria. The Frequency of prior to entering HOT SHUTDOWN following a SG
inspection ensures that the Surveillance has been completed and all tubes meeting the plugging
criteria are plugged prior to subjecting the SG tubes to significant primary-to-secondary
pressure differential.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-3c Amendment No. 291
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 47 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.7 REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM LEAKAGE
3/4.4.7.1 LEAKAGE DETECTION SYSTEMS
The RCS leakage detection systems required by this specification are provided to
monitor and detect leakage from the Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary. These detection
systems are consistent with the recommendations of Regulatory Guide 1.45, "Reactor Coolant
Pressure Boundary Leakage Detection Systems," May 1973.
3/4.4.7.2 OPERATIONAL LEAKAGE
Industry experience has shown that while a limited amount of leakage is expected from the
RCS, the unidentified portion of this leakage can be reduced to a threshold value of less than 1
GPM. This threshold value is sufficiently low to ensure early detection of additional leakage.
The 10 GPM IDENTIFIED LEAKAGE limitation provides allowance for a limited amount of
leakage from known sources whose presence will not interfere with the detection of
UNIDENTIFIED LEAKAGE by the leakage detection systems.
PRESSURE BOUNDARY LEAKAGE of any magnitude is unacceptable since it may be
indicative of an impending gross failure of the pressure boundary. Therefore, the presence of
any PRESSURE BOUNDARY LEAKAGE requires the unit to be promptly placed in COLD
SHUTDOWN.
Primary to Secondary Leakage Through Any One SG
The primary-to-secondary leakage rate limit applies to leakage through any one Steam
Generator. The limit of 150 gallons per day per steam generator is based on the operational
leakage performance criterion in NEI 97-06, Steam Generator Program Guidelines. The Steam
Generator Program operational leakage performance criterion in NEI 97-06 states, “The RCS
operational primary-to-secondary leakage through any one SG shall be limited to 150 gallons
per day.” The limit is based on operating experience with steam generator tube degradation
mechanisms that result in tube leakage. The operational leakage rate criterion in conjunction
with the implementation of the Steam Generator Program is an effective measure for minimizing
the frequency of steam generator tube ruptures. The dosage contribution from the tube leakage
will be within 10 CFR 50.67 limits in the event of either a steam generator tube rupture or steam
line break. The analyses are based on the total primary to secondary leakage from all SGs of 1
gallon per minute as a result of accident induced conditions.
Reactor Coolant System (RCS) Pressure Isolation Valves (PIV)
The function of the RCS PIVs is to separate the high pressure RCS from the attached low
pressure systems. The PIV leakage limit applies to each individual valve listed in the Technical
Requirements Manual. Leakage through both series PIVs in a line must be included as part of
the IDENTIFIED LEAKAGE, governed by LCO 3.4.7.2, "Operational Leakage." This is true
during operation only when the loss of RCS mass through two series valves is determined by a
water inventory balance (SR 4.4.7.2.1.d). A known component of the IDENTIFIED LEAKAGE
before operation begins is the least of the two individual leak rates determined for leaking series
PIVs during the required surveillance testing; leakage measured through one PIV in a line is not
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-4 Amendment No. 304
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 48 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.7.2 OPERATIONAL LEAKAGE (Continued)
RCS operational leakage if the other is leaktight.
Although this specification provides a limit on allowable PIV leakage rate, its main purpose is to
prevent overpressure failure of the low pressure portions of connecting systems. The leakage
limit is an indication that the PIVs between the RCS and the connecting systems are degraded
or degrading. PIV leakage could lead to overpressure of the low pressure piping or components.
Failure consequences could be a loss of coolant accident (LOCA) outside of containment, an
unanalyzed accident, that could degrade the ability for low pressure injection.
Actions
Unidentified leakage or identified leakage in excess of the LCO limits must be reduced to within
limits within 4 hours. This action time allows time to verify leakage rates and either identify
unidentified leakage or reduce leakage to within limits before the reactor must be shut down.
This action is necessary to prevent further deterioration of the reactor coolant pressure
boundary (RCPB). If any pressure boundary leakage exists, or primary-to-secondary leakage is
not within limit, or if unidentified or identified leakage cannot be reduced to within limits within 4
hours, the reactor must be brought to lower pressure conditions to reduce the severity of the
leakage and its potential consequences. It should be noted that leakage past seals and gaskets
is not pressure boundary leakage. The reactor must be brought to HOT STANDBY within 6
hours and COLD SHUTDOWN within 36 hours. This action reduces the leakage and also
reduces the factors that tend to degrade the pressure boundary. The action times are
reasonable, based on operating experience, to reach the required plant conditions from full
power conditions in an orderly manner and without challenging plant systems. In COLD
SHUTDOWN, the pressure stresses acting on the RCPB are much lower, and further
deterioration is much less likely.
Surveillances
Verifying RCS leakage to be within the LCO limits ensures the integrity of the Reactor Coolant
Pressure Boundary is maintained. Pressure boundary leakage would at first appear as
unidentified leakage and can only be positively identified by inspection. It should be noted that
leakage past seals and gaskets is not pressure boundary leakage. Unidentified leakage and
identified leakage are determined by performance of an RCS water inventory balance. The
RCS water inventory must be met with the reactor at steady state operating conditions. The
surveillance is modified by a Note that the surveillance is not required to be performed until 12
hours after establishing steady state operation. The 12 hour allowance provides sufficient time
to collect and process all necessary data after stable plant conditions are established. Steady
state operation is required to perform a proper inventory balance since calculations during
maneuvering are not useful. For RCS operational leakage determination by water inventory
balance, steady state is defined as stable RCS pressure, temperature, power level, pressurizer
and makeup tank levels, makeup and letdown, and Reactor Coolant Pump seal injection and
return flows. The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment
reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-4a Amendment No. 304
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 49 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.7.2 OPERATIONAL LEAKAGE (Continued)
Satisfying the primary-to-secondary leakage limit ensures that the operational leakage
performance criterion in the Steam Generator Program is met. If SR 4.4.7.2.1.c is not met,
compliance with LCO 3.4.6, “Steam Generator Tube Integrity,” should be evaluated. The 150
gallons per day limit is measured at room temperature (in accordance with EPRI PWR Primary-
to-Secondary Leak Guidelines). If it is not practical to assign the leakage to an individual steam
generator, all the primary-to-secondary leakage should be conservatively assumed to be from
one Steam Generator. The Surveillance is modified by a Note that states that the surveillance
is not required to be performed until 12 hours after establishment of steady state operation. For
RCS primary-to-secondary leakage determination, steady state is defined as stable RCS
pressure, temperature, power level, pressurizer and makeup tank levels, makeup and letdown,
and Reactor Coolant Pump seal injection and return flows. The Surveillance Frequency is
based on operating experience, equipment reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the
Surveillance Frequency Control Program. The primary-to-secondary leakage is determined
using continuous process radiation monitors or radiochemical grab sampling (in accordance
with EPRI PWR Primary-to-Secondary Leak Guidelines).
3/4.4.8
THIS SECTION DELETED
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-5 Amendment No. 304
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 50 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.9 SPECIFIC ACTIVITY
In MODES 1, 2, 3, and 4, operation within the LCO limits for DOSE EQUIVALENT I-131 and
DOSE EQUIVALENT XE-133 is necessary to limit the potential consequences of a steam line
break (SLB) or steam generator tube rupture (SGTR) to within the acceptance criteria. The
iodine specific activity in the reactor coolant is limited to 1.0 μCi/gm DOSE EQUIVALENT
I-131, and the noble gas specific activity in the reactor coolant is limited to 600 μCi/gm DOSE
EQUIVALENT XE-133. The limits on specific activity ensure that offsite and control room doses
will meet the appropriate acceptance criteria. The SLB and SGTR accident analyses show that
the calculated doses are within acceptable limits. Violation of the LCO may result in reactor
coolant radioactivity levels that could, in the event of a SLB or SGTR, lead to doses that exceed
the acceptance criteria.
With the DOSE EQUIVALENT I-131 greater than the LCO limit, samples at intervals of 4 hours
must be taken to demonstrate that the specific activity is < 60.0 μCi/gm. The Completion Time
of 4 hours is required to obtain and analyze a sample. Sampling is continued every 4 hours to
provide a trend. The DOSE EQUIVALENT I-131 must be restored to within limit within 48
hours. The Completion Time of 48 hours is acceptable since it is expected that, if there were an
iodine spike, the normal coolant iodine concentration would be restored within this time period.
Also, there is a low probability of a SLB or SGTR occurring during this time period.
With the DOSE EQUIVALENT XE-133 greater than the LCO limit, DOSE EQUIVALENT XE-133
must be restored to within limit within 48 hours. The allowed Completion Time of 48 hours is
acceptable since it is expected that, if there were a noble gas spike, the normal coolant noble
gas concentration would be restored within this time period. Also, there is a low probability of a
SLB or SGTR occurring during this time period.
A Note provided for both specific activities permits the use of the provisions of Technical
Specification 3.0.4.c. This allowance permits entry into the applicable MODE(S), relying on
Actions 3.4.9.a while the DOSE EQUIVALENT I-131 LCO limit is not met and Action 3.4.9.b
while the DOSE EQUIVALENT XE-133 is not met. This allowance is acceptable due to the
significant conservatism incorporated into the specific activity limit, the low probability of an
event which is limiting due to exceeding this limit, and the ability to restore transient-specific
activity excursions while the plant remains at, or proceeds to, power operation.
If the Action and associated completion time of LCO 3.4.9.a.1 is not met or if the DOSE
EQUIVALENT I-131 is > 60 μCi/gm, the reactor must be brought to HOT STANDBY within 6
hours and COLD SHUTDOWN within the next 30 hours. The allowed Completion Times are
reasonable, based on operating experience, to reach the required plant conditions from full
power conditions in an orderly manner and without challenging plant systems.
If the Action and the associated completion time of LCO 3.4.9.b is not met the reactor must be
brought to HOT STANDBY within 6 hours and COLD SHUTDOWN within the next 30 hours.
The allowed Completion Times are reasonable, based on operating experience, to reach the
required plant conditions from full power conditions in an orderly manner and without
challenging plant systems.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-6 Amendment No. 318

===== PAGE 51 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.9 SPECIFIC ACTIVITY (Continued)
Surveillance Requirement 4.4.9.1 requires performing a gamma isotopic analysis as a measure
of the noble gas specific activity of the reactor coolant in accordance with the Surveillance
Frequency Control Program (SFCP). This measurement is the sum of the degassed gamma
activities and the gaseous gamma activities in the sample taken. This Surveillance provides an
indication of any increase in the noble gas specific activity. Trending the results of this
Surveillance allows proper remedial action to be taken before reaching the LCO limit under
normal operating conditions. The Frequency within the SFCP considers the low probability of a
gross fuel failure during this time. Due to the inherent difficulty in detecting Kr-85 in a reactor
coolant sample due to masking from radioisotopes with similar decay energies, such as F-18
and I-134, it is acceptable to include the minimum detectable activity for Kr-85 in the
Surveillance calculation. If a specific noble gas nuclide listed in the definition of DOSE
EQUIVALENT XE-133 is not detected, it should be assumed to be present at the minimum
detectable activity.
Surveillance Requirement 4.4.9.2 is performed to ensure iodine specific activity remains within
the LCO limit during normal operation and following fast power changes when iodine spiking is
more apt to occur. The Frequency identified in the SFCP is adequate to trend changes in the
iodine activity level, considering noble gas activity is routinely monitored. The Frequency,
between 2 and 6 hours after a power change > 15% RTP within a 1 hour period, is established
because the iodine levels peak during this time following iodine spike initiation; samples at other
times would provide inaccurate results.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-6a Amendment No. 318

===== PAGE 52 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.10 PRESSURE/TEMPERATURE LIMITS
The temperature and pressure changes during heatup and cooldown are limited to be
consistent with the requirements given in the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section
XI, Appendix G.
1) The reactor coolant temperature and pressure and system heatup and cooldown rate
(with the exception of the pressurizer) shall be limited in accordance with those specified
in the PTLR for the service period specified therein.
a) Allowable combinations of pressure and temperature for specific
temperature change rates are below and to the right of the limit lines specified in
the PTLR. Limit lines for cooldown rates between those presented may be
obtained by interpolation.
b) The limits specified in the PTLR assure prevention of non-ductile failure
only. For normal operation, other inherent plant characteristics, e.g., pump heat
addition and pressurizer heater capacity, may limit the heatup and cooldown
rates that can be achieved over certain pressure-temperature ranges.
2) The limit lines specified in the PTLR shall be calculated periodically using methods
provided in Technical Specification 6.9.1.11.
3) The secondary side of the steam generator must not be pressurized above 200 psig if
the temperature of the steam generator is below 70F.
4) The pressurizer heatup and cooldown rates shall not exceed 100F/hr and 200F/hr,
respectively. The spray shall not be used if the temperature difference between the
pressurizer and the spray fluid is greater than 320F.
5) System preservice hydrotests and in-service leak and hydrotests shall be performed at
pressures in accordance with the requirements of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel
Code, Section XI.
The fracture toughness properties of the ferritic materials in the reactor vessel are determined in
accordance with the NRC Standard Review Plan, ASTM E185-82, and in accordance with
additional reactor vessel requirements. In order to provide sufficient safety margins for
protection against non-ductile failure, the pressure/temperature (P/T) limit curves for heatup and
cooldown, inservice leak and hydrostatic testing, and criticality are calculated using the most
limiting value of the nil-ductility reference temperature, RTNDT, at the 1/4T and 3/4T locations of
the beltline and extended beltline materials for the applicability term stated in the PTLR. The
selection of such a limiting RTNDT assures that all components in the Reactor Coolant System
will be operated conservatively in accordance with applicable Code requirements.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-7 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 53 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
The reactor vessel materials have been tested to determine their initial RTNDT; the results of
these tests are shown in UFSAR Section 5.2. Reactor operation and resultant fast neutron (E
greater than 1 MeV) irradiation can cause an increase in the RTNDT. To ensure that the
radiation embrittlement effects are accounted for in the calculation of the P/T limit curves, the
most limiting RTNDT includes the radiation induced shift, ΔRTNDT corresponding to the end of the
period for which curves are generated. This adjusted reference temperature (ART) can be
predicted based upon the fluence and the copper and nickel content of the material in question.
The ART is based upon the largest value of RTNDT computed by the methodology presented in
Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2. The PTLR contains the results of the ART evaluations. The
predicted neutron fluence, as a function of Effective Full Power Years (EFPY), has been
calculated based on the guidance of Regulatory Guide 1.190. The PTLR contains the results of
the fluence evaluations.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-8 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 54 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
Values of RT determined in this manner may be used until the results from the material
NDT
surveillance program, evaluated according to ASTM E185, are available. Capsules will be
removed in accordance with the requirements of ASTM E185-82 and 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix
H. The heatup and cooldown curves must be recalculated when the RT determined from
NDT
the surveillance capsule exceeds the calculated RT for the equivalent capsule radiation
NDT
exposure.
Allowable pressure-temperature relationships for various heatup and cooldown rates are
calculated using methods derived from Appendix G in Section XI of the ASME Boiler and
Pressure Vessel Code as required by Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-9 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 55 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
Page intentionally left blank
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-10 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 56 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
The heatup and cooldown curves are composite curves, constructed based on a point-by-point
comparison of the steady-state and finite rate data, as well as the reactor vessel and head
flange, to identify the most restrictive curve. The use of the composite curve is necessary to set
conservative heatup/cooldown limitations because at any specific pressure, temperature, and
temperature rate of change, one location within the reactor vessel will dictate the most
restrictive limit. Across the span of the P/T limit curves, different locations have more restrictive
limits, and, thus, the curves are composites of the most restrictive regions.
The heatup curve represents a different set of restrictions than the cooldown curve because the
directions of the thermal gradients through the vessel wall are reversed. The thermal gradient
reversal alters the location of the tensile stress between the outer and inner walls.
The criticality limit curve requirement is that it be ≥ 40°F above the heatup curve or the
cooldown curve, and not less than the minimum permissible temperature for inservice leak rate
testing.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-11 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 57 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
Although the pressurizer operates in temperature ranges above those for which there is reason
for concern of non-ductile failure, operating limits are provided to assure compatibility of
operation with the fatigue analysis performed in accordance with the ASME Code requirements.
The OPERABILITY of two POPSs valves or an RCS vent opening of greater than 3.14 square
inches ensures that the RCS will be protected from pressure transients which could exceed the
limits of Appendix G to 10 CFR Part 50 when one or more of the RCS cold legs are less than or
equal to the POPS enable temperature specified in the PTLR. Either POPS valve has adequate
relieving capability to protect the RCS from overpressurization when the transient is limited to
either (1) the start of an idle RCP with the secondary water temperature of the steam generator
less than or equal to 50°F above the RCS cold leg temperatures, or (2) the start of an
Intermediate Head Safety Injection pump and its injection into a water solid RCS, or the start of
a High Head Safety Injection pump in conjunction with a running Positive Displacement pump
and its injection into a water solid RCS. The minimum electrical power sources required to
assure POPS operability (based on POPS meeting the single failure criteria) consist of a normal
(via offsite power) and an emergency (via batteries) power source for each train of POPS.
Emergency diesel generators are not required for POPS to meet single failure criteria and
therefore are not required for POPS OPERABILITY.
LCO 3.0.4.b is not applicable to an inoperable POPS when entering MODE 4. There is an
increased risk associated with entering MODE 4 from MODE 5 with an inoperable POPS. The
provisions of LCO 3.0.4.b, which allow entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the
Applicability with the LCO not met after performance of a risk assessment addressing
inoperable systems and components, should not be applied in this circumstance.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-12 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 58 =====

Page intentionally left blank
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-13 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 59 =====

Page intentionally left blank
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-14 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 60 =====

Page intentionally left blank
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-15 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 61 =====

Page intentionally left blank
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-16 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 62 =====

Page intentionally left blank
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-17 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 63 =====

REACTOR COOLANT SYSTEM
BASES
3/4.4.11 DELETED
3/4.4.12 DELETED
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 4-18 Amendment No.326
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 64 =====

3/4.5 EMERGENCY CORE COOLING SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.5.1 ACCUMULATORS
The OPERABILITY of each RCS accumulator ensures that a sufficient volume of
borated water will be immediately forced into the reactor core through each of
the cold legs in the event the RCS pressure falls below the pressure of the
accumulators. This initial surge of water into the core provides the initial
cooling mechanism during large RCS pipe ruptures.
The limits on accumulator volume, boron concentration and pressure ensure that
the assumptions used for accumulator injection in the safety analysis are met.
The accumulator power operated isolation valves are considered to be
"operating bypasses" in the context of IEEE Std 279-1971, which requires that
bypasses of a protective function be removed automatically whenever permissive
conditions are not met. In addition, as these accumulator isolation valves
fail to meet single failure criteria, removal of power to the valves is
required,
The limits for operation with an accumulator inoperable for any reason except
an isolation valve closed minimizes the time exposure of the plant to a LOCA
event occurring concurrent with failure of an additional accumulator which may
result in unacceptable peak cladding temperatures. If a closed isolation
valve cannot be immediately opened, the full capability of one accumulator is
not available and prompt action is required to place the reactor in a mode
where this capability is not required.
3/4.5.2 and 3/4.5.3 ECCS SUBSYSTEMS
The OPERABILITY of two independent ECCS subsystems ensures that sufficient
emergency core cooling capability will be available in the event of a LOCA
assuming the loss of one subsystem through any single failure donsideration.
Either subsystem operating in conjunction with the accumulators is capable of
supplying sufficient core cooling to limit the peak cladding temperatures
within acceptable limits for all postulated break sizes ranging from the
double ended break of the largest RCS cold leg pipe downward. In addition,
each ECCS subsystem provides long term core cooling capability in the
recirculation mode during the accident recovery period.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 5-1

===== PAGE 65 =====

EMERGENCY CORE COOLING SYSTEMS
BASES
ECCS SUBSYSTEMS (Continued)
With the RCS temperature below 350°F, one OPERABLE ECCS subsystem is
acceptable without single failure consideration on the basis of the stable reactivity condition
of the reactor and the limited core cooling requirements.
The limitation for a maximum of one safety injection pump or one centrifugal charging
pump to be OPERABLE and the Surveillance requirement to verify all safety injection pumps
except the allowed OPERABLE safety injection pump to be inoperable below the POPS
enable temperature specified in the PTLR provides assurance that a mass addition pressure
transient can be relieved by the operation of a single POPS relief valve.
When running a safety injection pump with the RCS temperature less than the POPS
enable temperature specified in the PTLR with the potential for injecting into the RCS and
creating a mass addition pressure transient, two independent means of preventing reactor
coolant system injection will be utilized. The two independent means can be satisfied by
any of the following methods:
(1) A manual isolation valve locked in the closed position; or
(2) Two manual isolation valves closed; or
(3) One motor operated valve closed and its breaker de-energized and control circuit
fuses removed; or
(4) One air operated valve closed and its air supply maintained in such a manner as to
ensure that the valve will remain closed.
The surveillance requirements, which are provided to ensure the OPERABILITY of
each component, ensure that, at a minimum, the assumptions used in the safety analyses
are met and that subsystem OPERABILITY is maintained. The safety analyses make the
assumptions with respect to: 1) both the maximum and minimum total system resistance,
and 2) both the maximum and minimum branch injection line resistance. These resistances,
in conjunction with the ranges of potential pump performance, are used to calculate the
maximum and minimum ECCS flow assumed in the safety analyses.
The maximum and minimum flow surveillance requirements in conjunction with the
maximum and minimum pump performance curves ensures that the assumptions of total
system resistance and the distribution of that system resistance among the various paths
are met.
The maximum total pump flow surveillance requirements ensure the pump runout
limits of 560 gpm for the centrifugal charging pumps and 675 gpm for the safety injection
pumps are not exceeded. Due to the effect of pump suction boost alignment, the runout
limits for the surveillance criteria are  554 gpm for C/SI pumps,  664 gpm for SI pumps in
cold leg alignment and  654 gpm for SI pumps in hot leg alignment.
The surveillance requirement for the maximum difference between the maximum and
minimum individual injection line flows ensure that the minimum individual injection line
resistance assumed for the spilling line following a LOCA is met.
LCO 3.0.4.b is not applicable to an inoperable ECCS high head subsystem when
entering MODE 4. There is an increased risk associated with entering MODE 4 from MODE
5 with an inoperable ECCS high head subsystem. The provisions of LCO 3.0.4.b, which
allow entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability with the LCO not
met after performance of a risk assessment addressing inoperable systems and
components, should not be applied in this circumstance.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 5-2 Amendment No. 328
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 66 =====

EMERGENCY CORE COOLING SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.5.4 SEAL INJECTION FLOW
The Reactor Coolant Pump (RCP) seal injection flow restriction limits the amount
of ECCS flow that would be diverted from the injection path following an ECCS
actuation. This limit: is based on safety analysis assumptions, since RCP seal
inj~ction flow.is not isolated during Safety Injection (SI),
The LCO is not strictly a flow limit, but rather a flow limit based on a flow
line resistance. Line pressure and flow must be known to establish the proper line
resistance, Flow line resistance is determined by assuming that the RCS pressure is
at normal operating pressure, and that the centrifugal charging pump discharge
pressure is greater than or equal to 2430 psig. Charging pump header pressure is
used instead of RCS pr.essure, since it is more representative of flow diversion
during an accident, ~~he additional LCO modifier, charging flow control valve full
open, is required since the valve is designed to fail open. With the LCO specified
discharge pressure and control valve position, a flow limit is established, This
flow limit is used in the accident analysis,
A provision has been added to exempt surveillance requirement 4.0.4 for entry
into MODE 3, since the surveillance cannot be performed in a lower mode. The
exemption is permitted for up to 4 hours after the RCS pressure has stabilized within
± 20 psig of normal operating pressure. The RCS pressure requirement produces the
conditions necessary to correctly set the manual throttle valves. The exemption is
limited to 4 hours to ensure timely surveillance completion once the necessary
conditions are established,
3/4,5.5 REFUELING WATER STORAGE TANK
The OPERABILITY of the RWST as a part of the ECCS ensures that a sufficient
supply of borated water is available for injection by the ECCS in the event of a
LOCA.
The limits on RWST minimum volume and boron concentrations ensure that: (1)
sufficient water is available within containment to permit recirculation cooling flow
to the core, (2) the reactor will remain subcritical in the cold condition following
a small LOCA assuming complete mixing of the RWST, RCS, and ECCS water volumes with
all control rods inserted except the most reactive control assembly (ARI-1), and (3)
the reactor will remain subcritical in the cold condition following a large break
LOCA (break flow area> 3.0 sq. ft,) assuming complete mixing of the RWST, RCS, and
ECCS water and other sources of water that may eventually reside in the sump
following a LOCA with alql control rods assumed to be out (ARO). The limits on
contained water volume and boron concentration also ensure a pH value of between 7.0
and 10.0 for the solution recirculated within containment after a LOCA. This pH band
minimizes the evolution of iodine and minimizes the effect of chloride and caustic
stress corrosion on mechanical systems and components. The contained water volume
limit includes an allowance for water not usable because of tank discharge line
location or other physical characteristics,
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 5-3 Amendment No.258

===== PAGE 67 =====

3/4.6 CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.6.1 PRIMARY CONTAINMENT
3/4 6.1.1 CONTAINMENT INTEGRITY
Primary CONTAINMENT INTEGRITY ensures that the release of radioactive materials
from the containment atmosphere will be restricted to those leakage paths and associated leak
rates assumed in the accident analyses. This restriction, in conjunction with the leakage rate
limitation, will limit the site boundary radiation doses to within the limits of 10 CFR 100 during
accident conditions.
The purpose of this surveillance requirement (4.6.1.1a) is not to perform any testing or
valve manipulations, but to verify that containment isolation valves capable of being mispositioned
are in their proper safety position (closed).
Valves and blind flanges in high radiation areas may be verified by use of administrative
controls. Allowing the use of administrative means to verify compliance with the surveillance
requirement for these valves is acceptable based on the limited access to these areas in Modes 1,
2, 3, and 4 for ALARA reasons. Therefore, the probability of misalignment of these containment
isolation valves, once they have been verified in the proper position, is small.
Use of administrative means to verify position of valves and blind flanges that are locked,
sealed or otherwise secured is acceptable for Surveillance Requirement 4.6.1.1.a. Allowing
verification by administrative means is considered acceptable, since the function of locking,
sealing, or securing components is to ensure that these devices are not inadvertently
repositioned. Therefore, the probability of misalignment of these components, once they have
been verified to be in the proper position, is low.
The service water accumulator vessel and discharge valves function to maintain water
filled, subcooled fluid conditions in the containment fan coil unit (CFCU) cooling loops during
accident conditions. The service water accumulator vessel and discharge valves were installed
to address the Generic Letter 96-06 issues of column separation waterhammer and two phase
flow during an accident involving a loss of offsite power. The operability of each service water
accumulator vessel and discharge valve is required to ensure the integrity of containment
penetrations associated with the containment fan coil units during accident conditions. If a
service water accumulator vessel does not meet the vessel surveillance requirements, or if the
discharge valve response time does not meet design acceptance criteria when tested in
accordance with procedures, the containment integrity requirements of the CFCU cooling loops
exclusively supplied by the inoperable accumulator vessel or discharge valve are not met.
Limiting Condition for Operation 3.6.1.1 is applicable, and the cooling loops for the two CFCU’s
exclusively supplied by the inoperable accumulator are to be removed from service and isolated
to maintain containment integrity.
3/4 6.1.2 CONTAINMENT LEAKAGE
The limitations on containment leakage rates ensure that the total containment leakage
volume will not exceed the value assumed in the accident analyses at the peak accident
pressure P . As an added conservatism, the measured overall integrated leakage rate (Type A
a
test) is further limited to less than or equal to 0.75 L or less than or equal to 0.75 L, as
a t
applicable, during performance of the periodic test to account for possible degradation of the
containment leakage barriers between leakage tests.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-1 TSBC S2017-129

===== PAGE 68 =====

3/4 .6 CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
The surveillance testing for measuring leakage rates are consistent with the
Containment Leakage Rate Testing Program.
3/4.6.1.3 CONTAINMENT AIR LOCKS
Containment air locks form part of the containment pressure boundary and provide a means
for personnel access during all MODES of operation.
Each air lock is nominally a right circular cylinder, 10 feet in diameter, with a door at each
end. The doors are interlocked during normal operation to prevent simultaneous opening.
During periods when containment is not required to be OPERABLE, the door interlock
mechanism may be disabled, allowing both doors of an air lock to remain open for extended
periods when frequent containment entry is necessary. Each air lock door has been designed
and tested to certify its ability to withstand a pressure in excess of the maximum expected
pressure following a Design Basis Accident (DBA) in containment. As such, closure of a single
door supports containment OPERABILITY. Each of the doors contains double gasketed seals
and local leakage rate testing capability to ensure pressure integrity. To effect a leak tight seal,
the air lock design uses pressure-seated doors (i.e., an increase in containment internal
pressure results in increased sealing force on each door).
Each personnel air lock is provided with limit switches on both doors that provide control
room indication of door position. Additionally, control room indication is provided to alert the
operator whenever an air lock door interlock mechanism is defeated.
The containment air locks form part of the containment pressure boundary. As such, air
lock integrity and leak tightness is essential for maintaining the containment leakage rate within
limit in the event of a DBA. Not maintaining air lock integrity or leak tightness may result in a
leakage rate in excess of that assumed in the unit safety analysis.
The DBAs that result in a release of radioactive material within containment are a loss of
coolant accident and a rod ejection accident. In the analysis of each of these accidents, it is
assumed that containment is OPERABLE such that release of fission products to the
environment is controlled by the rate of containment leakage. The containment was designed
with an allowable leakage rate of 0.1% of containment air weight per day. This leakage rate is
defined in 10CRF50, Appendix J as L =0.1% of containment air weight per day, the maximum
a
allowable containment leakage rate at the calculated peak containment internal pressure
P = 47.0 psig following a DBA. The allowable leakage rate forms the basis for the acceptance
a
criteria imposed on the surveillance requirements associated with the air locks.
Each containment air lock forms part of the containment pressure boundary. As part of
the containment, the air lock safety function is related to control of the containment leakage rate
resulting from DBA. Thus, each air lock’s structural integrity and leak tightness are essential to
the successful mitigation of such an event.
Each air lock is required to be OPERABLE. For the air lock to be considered
OPERABLE, the air lock interlock mechanism must be OPERABLE, the air lock must be in
compliance with the Type B air lock leakage test, and both air lock doors must be OPERABLE.
The interlock allows only one air lock door of an air lock to be opened at one time. This
SALEM – UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-1a TSBC S2017-129

===== PAGE 69 =====

3/4.6 CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
provision ensures that a gross breach of containment does not exist when containment is
required to be OPERABLE. Closure of a single door in each air lock is sufficient to provide a
leak tight barrier following postulated events. Nevertheless, both doors are kept closed when
the air lock is not being used for normal entry into and exit from containment.
In MODES 1, 2, 3, and 4, a DBA could cause a release of radioactive material to
containment. In MODES 5 and 6, the probability and consequences of these events are
reduced due to the pressure and temperature limitations of these MODES. Therefore, the
containment air locks are not required in MODE 5 to prevent leakage of radioactive material
from containment. The requirements for the containment air locks during MODE 6 are
addressed in LCO 3.9.4, “Containment Building Penetrations”.
The ACTIONS are modified by five notes. Note (1) allows entry and exit to perform
repairs on the affected air lock component. If the outer door is inoperable, then it may be easily
accessed for most repairs. It is preferred that the air lock be accessed from inside primary
containment by entering through the other OPERABLE air lock. However, if this is not
practicable, or if repairs on either door must be performed from the barrel side of the door then it
is permissible to enter the air lock through the OPERABLE door, which means there is a short
time during which the containment boundary is not intact (during access through the
OPERABLE door). The ability to open the OPERABLE door, even if it means the containment
boundary is temporarily not intact, is acceptable due to the low probability of an event that could
pressurize the containment during the short time in which the OPERABLE door is expected to
be open. After each entry and exit, the OPERABLE door must be immediately closed. If
ALARA conditions permit, entry and exit should be via an OPERABLE air lock.
Note (2) adds clarification that separate condition entry is allowed for each air lock. This
is acceptable, since the required ACTIONS provide appropriate compensatory measures for
each inoperable air lock. Complying with the Required Actions may allow for continued
operation. A subsequent inoperable air lock is governed by condition entry for that air lock.
Notes (3) and (4) ensure that only the required ACTIONS and associated completion
times of condition c. are required if both doors in the same air lock are inoperable. With both
doors in the same air lock inoperable, an OPERABLE door is not available to be closed.
Required ACTIONS c.1 and c.2 are the appropriate remedial actions. The exception of these
Notes does not affect tracking the completion time from the initial entry into condition a., only the
requirement to comply with the required ACTIONS.
In the event the air lock leakage results in exceeding the overall containment leakage
rate, Note (5) directs entry into the applicable Conditions and required ACTIONS of LCO 3.6.1,
“Primary Containment”.
With one air lock door in one or more containment air locks inoperable, the OPERABLE
door must be verified closed (ACTION a.1) in each affected containment air lock. This ensures
that a leak tight containment barrier is maintained by the use of an OPERABLE air lock door.
This ACTION must be completed within 1 hour. The specified time period is consistent with the
ACTIONS of LCO 3.6.1.1 that requires that containment be restored to OPERABLE status
within 1 hour. OPERABILITY of the air lock interlock is not required to support the
OPERABILITY of an air lock door.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-1b TSBC S2017-129

===== PAGE 70 =====

3/4.6 CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
In addition, the affected air lock penetration must be isolated by locking closed the
OPERABLE air lock door within the 24 hour completion time (ACTION a.2). The 24 hour
completion time is reasonable for locking the OPERABLE air lock door, considering the
OPERABLE door of the affected air lock is being maintained closed.
Required ACTION a.3 verifies that an air lock with an inoperable door has been isolated
by the use of a locked and closed OPERABLE air lock door. This ensures that an acceptable
containment leakage boundary is maintained. The completion time of once per 31 days is
based on engineering judgement and is considered adequate in view of the low likelihood of a
locked door being mispositioned and other administrative controls.
ACTION a.3 allows the use of the air lock for entry and exit for 7 days under
administrative controls if both air locks have an inoperable door. This 7-day restriction begins
when the second air lock is discovered to be inoperable.
Containment entry may be required on a periodic basis to perform Technical Specification
Surveillances and required ACTIONS, as well as other activities on equipment inside
containment that are required by Technical Specifications or activities on equipment that
support Technical Specification required equipment. This Note is not intended to preclude
performing other activities (i.e., non-Technical Specification required activities) if the
containment is entered, using the inoperable air lock, to perform an allowed entry listed above.
This allowance is acceptable due to the low probability of an event that could pressurize the
containment during the short time that the OPERABLE door is expected to be open.
Because of ALARA considerations, ACTION a.3 also allows air lock doors located in
high radiation areas to be verified locked closed by use of administrative means. Allowing
verification by administrative means is considered acceptable, since access to these areas is
typically restricted. Therefore, the probability of misalignment of the door, once it has been
verified to be in the proper position, is small.
With an air lock interlock mechanism inoperable in one or more air locks, the required
ACTIONS and associated completion times are consistent with those specified in Condition a.
In addition, ACTION b.3 allows entry into and exit from containment under the control of a
dedicated individual stationed at the air lock to ensure that only one door is opened at a time
(i.e., the individual performs the function of the interlock). In addition, ACTION b.3 allows air
lock doors located in high radiation areas to be verified locked closed by use of administrative
means.
ACTION c.1 requires that with one or more air locks inoperable for reasons other than
those described in condition a. or b., action must be initiated immediately to evaluate previous
combined leakage rates using current air lock test results. An evaluation is acceptable, since it
is overly conservative to immediately declare the containment inoperable if both doors in an air
lock have failed a seal test or if the overall air lock leakage is not within limits. In many
instances (e.g., only one seal per door has failed), containment remains OPERABLE, yet only 1
hour (per LCO 3.6.1.1) would be provided to restore the air lock door to OPERABLE status prior
to requiring plant shutdown. In addition, even with both doors failing the seal test, the overall
containment leakage rate can still be within limits.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-1c TSBC S2017-129

===== PAGE 71 =====

3/4.6 CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
Required ACTION c.2 requires that one door in the affected containment air lock must
be verified to be closed within the 1 hour completion time. This specified time period is
consistent with the ACTIONS of LCO 3.6.1.1, which requires that containment be restored to
OPERABLE status within 1 hour.
Additionally, the affected air lock(s) must be restored to OPERABLE status within the 24
hour completion time. This completion time begins at the time that the air lock is discovered to
be inoperable. The specified time period is considered reasonable for restoring an inoperable
air lock to OPERABLE status, assuming that at least one door is maintained closed in each
affected air lock.
If the inoperable containment air lock cannot be restored to OPERABLE status within the
required completion time, the plant must be brought to a MODE in which the LCO does not
apply. To achieve this status, the plant must be brought to at least Hot Standby within 6 hours
and to Cold Shutdown within the following 30 hours. The allowed completion times are
reasonable based on operating experience, to reach the required plant conditions from full
power conditions in an orderly manner and without challenging plant systems.
Maintaining containment airlocks OPERABLE requires compliance with the leakage rate test
requirements of 10CFR50, Appendix J, as modified by approved exemptions. This Surveillance
Requirement reflects the leakage rate testing requirements with regard to air lock leakage (Type
B leakage tests). The acceptance criteria were established during initial air lock and
containment OPERABILITY testing. The periodic testing requirements verify that the air lock
leakage does not exceed the allowed fraction of the overall containment leakage rate. The
frequency is required by Appendix J, as modified by approved exemptions. Thus, the provision
of Specification 4.0.2 (which allows frequency extensions) does not apply.
The air lock interlock is designed to prevent simultaneous opening of both doors in a
single air lock. Since both the inner and outer doors of an air lock are designed to withstand the
maximum expected post accident containment pressure, closure of either door will support
containment OPERABILITY. Thus, the door interlock feature supports containment
OPERABILITY while the air lock is being used for personnel transit in and out of the
containment. Periodic testing of this interlock demonstrates that the interlock will function as
designed and that simultaneous opening of the inner and outer doors will not inadvertently
occur. The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment reliability, and
plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-1d TSBC S2017-129

===== PAGE 72 =====

CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.6.1.4 INTERNAL PRESSURE
The limitations on containment internal pressure ensure that: 1) the
containment structure is prevented from exceeding its design negative pressure differential with
respect to the outside atmosphere of 3.5 psig, and 2) the containment peak pressure does not
exceed the design pressure of 47 psig during the limiting pipe break conditions. The pipe
breaks considered are LOCA and steam line breaks.
The limit of 0.3 psig for initial positive containment pressure is consistent with the accident
analyses initial conditions.
The maximum peak pressure expected to be obtained from a LOCA or steam line break
event is  47 psig.
3/4.6.1.5 AIR TEMPERATURE
The limitations on containment average air temperature ensure that the overall containment
average air temperature does not exceed the initial temperature condition assumed in the
accident analysis for a LOCA or steam line break. In order to determine the containment
average air temperature, an average is calculated using measurements taken at locations within
containment selected to provide a representative sample of the overall containment
atmosphere.
3/4.6.1.6 CONTAINMENT STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY
This limitation ensures that the structural integrity of the containment will be maintained
comparable to the original design standards for the life of the facility. Structural integrity is
required to ensure that the containment will withstand the design pressure. The visual
inspections of the concrete and liner and the Type A leakage test, both in accordance with the
Containment Leakage Rate Testing Program, are sufficient to demonstrate this capability.
(Note that the elements of 3/4.6.1.7 were RELOCATED to 3/4 6.3 by LCR S06-06)
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-2 Amendment No.260
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 73 =====

CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.6.2 DEPRESSURIZATION AND COOLING SYSTEMS
3/4.6.2.1 CONTAINMENT SPRAY SYSTEM
The OPERABILITY of the containment spray system, when operated in conjunction
with the Containment Cooling System, ensures that containment depressurization and cooling
capability will be available in the event of a LOCA. The pressure reduction and resultant lower
containment leakage rate are consistent with the assumptions used in the accident analyses.
The containment spray system also provides a mechanism for removing iodine from the
containment atmosphere and therefore the time requirements for restoring an inoperable spray
system to OPERABLE status have been maintained consistent with that assigned other
inoperable ESF equipment.
Normal plant operation and maintenance practices are not expected to trigger surveillance
requirement 4.6.2.1.d. Only an unanticipated circumstance would initiate this surveillance, such
as inadvertent spray actuation, a major configuration change, or a loss of foreign material
control when working within the affected boundary of the system. If an activity occurred that
presents the potential of creating nozzle blockage, an evaluation would be performed by the
engineering organization to determine if the amount of nozzle blockage would impact the
required design capabilities of the containment spray system. If the evaluation determines that
the containment spray system would continue to perform its design basis function, then
performance of the air or smoke flow test would not be required. If the evaluation cannot
conclusively determine the impact to the containment spray system, then the air or smoke flow
test would be performed to determine if any nozzle blockage has occurred.
3/4.6.2.2 SPRAY ADDITIVE SYSTEM
The OPERABILITY of the spray additive system ensures that sufficient NaOH is added to the
containment spray in the event of a LOCA. The limits on NaOH volume and concentration,
ensure that 1) the iodine removal efficiency of the spray water is maintained because of the
increase in pH value, and 2) corrosion effects on components within containment are minimized.
The contained water volume limit includes an allowance for water not usable because of tank
discharge line location or other physical characteristics. These assumptions are consistent with
the iodine removal efficiency assumed in the accident analyses.
3/4.6.2.3 CONTAINMENT COOLING SYSTEM
The OPERABILITY of the containment cooling system ensures that adequate heat removal
capacity is available when operated in conjunction with the containment spray systems during
post-LOCA conditions.
Five containment fan cooler units (CFCUs) are provided. Two CFCUs are each supplied with
cooling water from one of the two separate service water headers. One CFCU is supplied from
both service water headers through normally open isolation valves and check valves from each
header. Air is drawn into the coolers through the fan and discharged to duct work which
distributes the cooled air to the various containment compartments and areas.
During normal operation, up to four CFCUs are typically operating. The fans are normally
operated at high speed with service water supplied to the cooling coils. The CFCUs are
designed to limit the ambient containment air temperature during normal unit operation to less
than the limit specified in LCO 3.6.1.5, "Air Temperature." This temperature limitation ensures
that the containment temperature does not exceed the initial temperature conditions assumed
for the DBAs.
In post-accident operation following an actuation signal, the CFCUs are designed to start
automatically in low speed if not already running. If running in high (normal) speed, the fans
automatically shift to low speed. The fans are operated at the lower speed during accident
conditions to prevent motor overload from the higher mass atmosphere.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-3 Amendment No. 333
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 74 =====

CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
The surveillance requirements for the service water accumulator vessels ensure each tank
contains sufficient water and nitrogen to maintain water filled, subcooled fluid conditions in three
containment fan coil unit (CFCU) cooling loops in response to a loss of offsite power, without
injecting nitrogen converges into the containment fan coil unit loops assuming the most limiting
single failure. The surveillance requirement for the discharge valve response time test ensures
that on a loss of offsite power, each discharge valve actuates to the open position in accordance
with the design to allow sufficient tank discharge into the CFCU piping to maintain water filled
subcooled fluid conditions in three CFCU cooling loops, assuming the most limiting single
failure.
The surveillance requirements for the CFCUs ensure sufficient SWS flow through each
operating cooler to provide the minimum containment cooling as assumed by the containment
response analysis for a design-basis LOCA or MSLB event. The surveillance flow rate is
selected to ensure adequate heat removal (with no two-phase flow). The specified surveillance
flow rate represents the total flow from both the CFCU coils and the CFCU motor-cooler
SR 4.6.2.3.b.2
Operating each CFCU in low speed for ≥ 15 minutes ensures that all CFCUs are OPERABLE
and that all associated controls are functioning properly. It also ensures that blockage, fan or
motor failure can be detected for corrective action.
SR 4.6.2.3.c.1
This SR requires verification that each CFCU actuates upon receipt of an actual or simulated
safety injection signal.
3/4.6.3 CONTAINMENT ISOLATION VALVES
The OPERABILITY of the containment isolation valves ensures that the containment
atmosphere will be isolated from the outside environment in the event of a release of radioactive
material to the containment atmosphere or pressurization of the containment. Containment
isolation within the time limits specified ensures that the release of radioactive material to the
environment will be consistent with the assumptions used in the analyses for a LOCA.
The opening of locked or sealed closed containment isolation valves (penetration flow paths) on
an intermittent basis under administrative control includes the following considerations: (1)
stationing a dedicated individual, who is in constant communication with the control room, at the
valve controls, (2) instructing this individual to close these valves in an accident situation, and
(3) assuring that the environmental conditions will not preclude access to close the valves and
that this action will prevent the release of radioactivity outside the containment.
The main steam isolation valves (MSIVs) fulfill their containment isolation function as remote-
manual containment isolation valves. The automatic closure of the MSIVs is not required for
containment isolation due to having a closed system inside containment. The remote-manual
containment isolation function of the MSIVs can be accomplished through either the use of the
hydraulic operator or when the MSIV has been tested in accordance with surveillance
requirement 4.7.1.5 the steam assist closure function can be credited.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-4 Amendment No. 333
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 75 =====

CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
BASES
Surveillance Requirement (SR) 4.6.3.3 only applies to the MS7 (Main Steam
Drain) valves and the MS18 (Main Steam Bypass) valves. The MS167 (Main Steam Isolation)
valves are tested for main steam isolation purposes by SR 4.7.1.5. For containment isolation
purposes, the MS167s are tested as remote/manual valves
pursuant to Specification 4.0.5.
The containment purge supply and exhaust isolation valves are required to be closed during
plant operation since these valves have not been demonstrated capable of closing during a
LOCA. Maintaining these valves (or equivalent isolation device) closed during plant operations
ensures that excessive quantities of radioactive materials will not be released via the
containment purge system.
A containment purge valve is not a required containment isolation valve when its flow path is
isolated with a blind flange tested in accordance with SR 4.6.1.2.b. The inboard valve of both
the containment purge supply and exhaust penetrations has been replaced with a testable
double o-ring blind flange. The blind flange serves as the containment boundary and performs
the containment integrity function in Modes 1, 2, 3, and 4. The outboard valve of both the
containment purge supply and exhaust penetrations performs no containment integrity function
in MODES 1-4; these valves operate during shutdown for normal system purging and
containment closure when the blind flanges are removed.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 6-5 Amendment No. 333
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 76 =====

3/4.7 PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.1 TURBINE CYCLE
3/4.7.1.1 SAFETY VALVES
The OPERABILITY of the main steam line code safety valves ensures that
the secondary system pressure will be limited to within 110% of its design pressure of 1085 psig
during the most severe anticipated system operational transient. The MSSVs also provide
protection against overpressurization of
the Reactor Coolant Pressure Boundary by providing a heat sink for the removal of energy from
the Reactor Coolant System if the preferred heat sink is not available. The maximum relieving
capacity is associated with a turbine trip from 100% RATED THERMAL POWER coincident with
an assumed loss of condenser
heat sink (i.e., no steam bypass to the condenser).
The specified valve lift settings and relieving capacities are in accordance with the
requirements of Section III of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Code, 1971 Edition. The total
relieving capacity for all valves on all of the steam lines is 16.66 x 106 lbs/hr which is
approximately 110% of the maximum calculated steam flow of 15.12 x 106 lbs/hr at 100%
RATED THERMAL POWER. A minimum of 2 OPERABLE safety valves per OPERABLE steam
generator ensures that sufficient relieving capacity is available for the allowable THERMAL
POWER restriction in Table 3.7-1.
STARTUP and/or POWER OPERATION is allowable with inoperable safety valves within the
limitations of the ACTION requirements on the basis of the
reduction in secondary steam flow associated with the required reduction of RATED THERMAL
POWER. The acceptable power level (in percent RATED THERMAL POWER) for operation
with inoperable safety valves was determined by
performing explicit transient analysis.
The events that challenge the relief capacity of the safety valves are those resulting in
decreased heat removal capability. In this category of events, a loss of external electrical load
and/or turbine trip is the limiting anticipated operational occurrence. A series of cases was
analyzed for this transient covering up to two inoperable safety valves on each steam generator.
The results of these cases were used to determine a maximum thermal power
level from which the event could be initiated without exceeding the primary
and secondary side design pressure limits. Thus, the maximum allowed power level as a
function of the number of inoperable MSSVs on any steam generator
is presented in Table 3.7-1. Note that the power level values presented on
this table are the direct inputs into the transient analysis cases and do not include any
allowance for calorimetric error. Actual power level reductions must include calorimetric
uncertainty and other allowances for operating
margin as deemed necessary.
Specific accident analyses for RCCA Bank Withdrawal at Power scenarios demonstrate that
adequate safety valve relief capacity exist with up to two inoperable safety relief valves on each
steam generator. These cases demonstrate that the reactor trip on OTDT along with the relief
from the available main steam safety valves is sufficient to meet secondary side pressurization
limits.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-1 Amendment No. 259
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 77 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
For three inoperable main steam safety valves in one or more steam generators, thermal
reactor power must be reduced in conjunction with a reduction in the Power Range Neutron
Flux High trip setpoint to prevent overpressurization of the main steam system.
The transient analysis assumes that the MSSVs will start to open at the lift setpoint with 3%
allowance for setpoint tolerance. In addition, the analysis accounts for accumulation by
including a 5 psi ramp for the valve to reach its fully open position. Inoperable MSSVs are
assumed to be those with the lowest lift setting. Surveillance testing as covered in Table 3.7-4
allows a  3% lift setpoint tolerance. However, to allow for drift during subsequent operation,
the valves must be reset to within  1% of the lift setpoint following testing.
3/4.7.1.2 AUXILIARY FEEDWATER SYSTEM
The OPERABILITY of the auxiliary feedwater system ensures that the
Reactor Coolant System can be cooled down to less than 350°F from normal
operating conditions in the event of a total loss of offsite power.
Verifying that each Auxiliary Feedwater (AFW) pump’s developed head at the flow test point
is greater than or equal to the required minimum developed head ensures that the AFW pump
performance has not degraded during the cycle, and that the assumption made in the accident
analysis remain valid. Flow and differential head are normal tests of centrifugal pump
performance required by Section XI of the ASME Code. Because it is undesirable to introduce
cold AFW into the steam generators while operating, the test is performed on recirculation flow.
This test confirms one point on the pump design curve (head vs flow curve), and is indicative of
pump performance. Inservice testing confirms pump operability, trends performance and detects
incipient failures by indication of pump performance.
The flow path to each steam generator is ensured by maintaining all manual
maintenance valves locked open. A spool piece consisting of a length of pipe may be used as
an equivalent to a locked open manual valve. The manual valves in the flow path are: 2AF1,
21AF3, 22AF3, 23AF3, 21AF10, 22AF10, 23AF10, 24AF10, 21AF20, 22AF20, 23AF20,
24AF20, 21AF22, 22AF22, 23AF22, 24AF22, 21AF86, 22AF86, 23AF86, and 24AF86.
LCO 3.0.4.b is not applicable to an inoperable AFW train. There is an increased risk associated
with entering a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability with an AFW train
inoperable. The provisions of LCO 3.0.4.b, which allow entry into a MODE or other specified
condition in the Applicability with the LCO not met after performance of a risk assessment
addressing inoperable systems and components, should not be applied in this circumstance.
3/4.7.1.3 AUXILIARY FEED STORAGE TANK
The OPERABILITY of the auxiliary feed storage tank with the minimum water volume
ensures that sufficient water is available to maintain the RCS at HOT STANDBY conditions for 8
hours with steam discharge to the atmosphere concurrent with total loss of offsite power. The
contained water volume limit includes an allowance for water not usable because of tank
discharge line location or other physical characteristics.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-2 Amendment No. 258

===== PAGE 78 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.1.4 ACTIVITY
The limitations on secondary system specific activity ensure that the resultant offsite
radiation dose will be limited to a small fraction of 10 CFR Part 100 limits in the event of a steam
line rupture. This dose also includes the effects of a coincident 1.0 GPM primary to secondary
tube leak in the steam generator of the affected steam line. These values are consistent with the
assumptions used in the accident analyses.
3/4.7.1.5 MAIN STEAM LINE ISOLATION VALVES
The OPERABILITY of the main steam line isolation valves ensures that no more than one
steam generator will blowdown in the event of a steam line rupture. This restriction is required to
1) minimize the positive reactivity effects of the Reactor Coolant System cooldown associated
with the blowdown, and 2) limit the pressure rise within containment in the event the main steam
line rupture occurs within containment. The OPERABILITY of the main steam isolation valves
within the closure times of the surveillance requirements are consistent with the assumptions
used in the accident analyses.
If the closure time of the main steam isolation valve (MSIV) during technical specification
surveillance testing (performed at a Steam Generator pressure between 800 psig and 1015
psig) is 5.0 seconds or less and the engineered safety feature response time (including valve
closure time) for the steam line isolation (MSI) signal (Table 3.3-5) is 5.5 seconds or less, then
assurance is provided that MSI occurs within 12 seconds under accident conditions, where
Steam Generator pressure may be lower. This method of testing assures that for main steam
line ruptures that are initiated from Modes 1-3 conditions that generate a MSI signal via
automatic or manual initiation and have adequate steam line pressure to close, the main steam
lines isolate within the time required by the accident analysis. Fast closure of the MSIVs is
assured at a minimum steam pressure of 170 psia. However, the MSIV will still close via the
steam assist function between 118 – 170 psia with slightly greater closure times. For main
steam line ruptures that receive an automatic or manual signal for MSI and do not have
adequate steam pressure to close the MSIVs (less than 118 psia), the event does not require
MSIV closure to provide protection to satisfy design basis requirements (e.g., minimum DNBR
remains above the minimum DNBR limit value and peak containment pressure remains below
47 psig).
Testing for SR 4.7.1.5 is performed prior to opening the MSIVs for power operation.
During testing, only one valve is opened at a time, with the other three valves remaining closed
in the safe position, ensuring isolation capability is maintained. In the event of a steam line
rupture, a postulated failure of the tested valve in the open position would result in the
blowdown of a single steam generator since the remaining three MSIVs are closed. Failure of a
single MSIV to close is consistent with the accident analysis assumptions for a major secondary
system pipe rupture (UFSAR Section 15.4.2).
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-3 Revised by letter dated 6-19-2003

===== PAGE 79 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.2 STEAM GENERATOR PRESSURE/TEMPERATURE LIMITATION
The limitation on steam generator pressure and temperature ensures that the pressure
induced stresses in the steam generators do not exceed the maximum allowable fracture
toughness stress limits. The limitations of 70°F and 200 psig are based on average steam
generator impact values taken at 10°F and are sufficient to prevent brittle fracture.
3/4.7.3 COMPONENT COOLING WATER SYSTEM
The OPERABILITY of the component cooling water system ensures that sufficient cooling
capacity is available for continued operation of safety-related equipment during normal and
accident conditions. The component cooling water (CCW) loops are independent of each other to
the degree that each has separate controls and power supplies and the operation of one does not
depend on the other. The CCW system consists of two safeguards mechanical trains supplied
by three pumps powered from separate vital buses. This complement of equipment assures
adequate redundancy in the event of a single active component failure during the injection phase
and either a single active failure or passive failure during the recirculation phase. The redundant
cooling capacity of this system, assuming a single failure, is consistent with the assumptions
used in the accident analyses (i.e., separation of loops as required by the single failure analysis).
OPERABILITY of the CCW system exists when both loops are OPERABLE. An OPERABLE
CCW loop consists of one mechanical train and one CCW pump.
3/4.7.4 SERVICE WATER SYSTEM
The OPERABILITY of the service water system ensures that sufficient cooling capacity is
available for continued operation of safety-related equipment during normal and accident
conditions. The redundant cooling capacity of this system, assuming a single failure, is
consistent with the assumptions used in the accident conditions within acceptable limits.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-4 S20-04

===== PAGE 80 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.5 FLOOD PROTECTION
The limitation on flood protection ensures that facility protective
actions will be taken and operation will be terminated in the event of flood conditions. The limit
of elevation 10.5' Mean Sea Level is based on the elevation above which facility flood control
measures are required to provide protection to safety-related equipment.
3/4.7.6 CONTROL ROOM EMERGENCY AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
BACKGROUND:
The control room emergency air conditioning system (CREACS) provides a protected
environment from which occupants can control the unit following an uncontrolled release of
radioactivity, hazardous chemicals, or smoke.
The OPERABILITY of the CREACS ensures that 1) the ambient air temperature does
not exceed the allowable temperature for continuous duty rating for the equipment and
instrumentation cooled by this system and 2) the control room will remain habitable for
operations personnel during and following all credible accident conditions.
The CREACS consists of two independent, redundant trains, one from each unit that re-
circulate and filter the air in the Control Room Envelope (CRE) and a CRE boundary that limits
the inleakage of unfiltered air. Each CREACS train consists of a prefilter, a high efficiency
particulate air (HEPA) filter, an activated charcoal adsorber section for removal of gaseous
activity (principally iodines), and fans. Ductwork, valves or dampers, doors, barriers, and
instrumentation also form part of the system. The CREACS is a shared system between Unit 1
and 2 supplying a common CRE. During emergency operation following receipt of a Safety
Injection or High Radiation actuation signal, for areas inside the CRE, one 100% capacity fan in
each Unit's CREACS will operate in a pressurization mode with a constant amount of outside air
supplied for continued CRE pressurization. One fan from each train will automatically start upon
receipt of an initiation signal, with one fan in each train in standby. A failure of one fan will result
in the standby fan automatically starting.
Each CREACS train has two 100% capacity fans, such that any one of the four fans is sized
to provide the required flow for CRE pressurization within the common CRE during an emergency.
A failure of one CREACS filtration train requires manual actions to properly reposition
dampers in support of single filtration train operation.
To minimize control room radiological doses, the CREACS outside air is supplied from
the non-accident unit's emergency air intake through the cross-connected supply duct (as
determined by which unit received an accident signal). Outside air is mixed with recirculated air,
passed through each CREACS filter bank (pre-filter, HEPA filter, and charcoal adsorber) and
cooling coil, and distributed to the common CRE. The CREACS is designed to maintain a
habitable environment in the CRE for 30 days of continuous occupancy after a Design Basis
Accident (DBA) without exceeding 5 Rem total effective dose equivalent (TEDE).
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5 Amendment No. 269
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 81 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
The CREACS is an emergency system, parts of which may also operate during normal
unit operations in the standby mode of operation. Upon receipt of the actuating signal(s), normal
air supply to the CRE is isolated, and the stream of ventilation air is recirculated through the
system filter trains. The prefilters remove any large particles in the air to prevent excessive
loading of the HEPA filters and charcoal adsorbers. Pressurization of the CRE minimizes
infiltration of unfiltered air through the CRE boundary from all the surrounding areas adjacent to
the CRE boundary. CREACS will be manually initiated in the recirculation mode only in the
event of a fire outside the CRE, a toxic chemical release, or testing.
The CRE is the area within the confines of the CRE boundary that contains the spaces
that control room occupants inhabit to control the unit during normal and accident conditions.
This area encompasses the control room and other non-critical areas to which frequent
personnel access or continuous occupancy is not necessary in the event of an accident. The
CRE is protected during normal operation, natural events, and accident conditions. The CRE
boundary is the combination of walls, floor, roof, ducting, doors, penetrations and equipment
that physically form the CRE. The OPERABILITY of the CRE boundary must be maintained to
ensure that the inleakage of unfiltered air into the CRE will not exceed the inleakage assumed in
the licensing basis analysis of design basis accident (DBA) consequences to CRE occupants.
The CRE and its boundary are defined in the Control Room Envelope Habitability Program.
APPLICABLE SAFETY ANALYSES
The CREACS components are arranged in redundant, safety related ventilation trains.
The location of components and ducting within the CRE ensures an adequate supply of filtered
air to all areas requiring access. The CREACS provides airborne radiological protection for the
CRE occupants, as demonstrated by the CRE occupant dose analyses for the most limiting
design basis accident, fission product release presented in the UFSAR, Chapter 15.
The CREACS provides protection from smoke and hazardous chemicals to the CRE
occupants. The analysis of hazardous chemical releases demonstrates that the toxicity limits
are not exceeded in the CRE following a hazardous chemical release, as described in UFSAR,
Section 6.4. The evaluation of a smoke challenge demonstrates that it will not result in the
inability of the CRE occupants to control the reactor either from the control room or from the
remote shutdown panels, as described in UFSAR, Section 9.5.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5a TSBC S2011-238

===== PAGE 82 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
LCO
Two independent and redundant CREACS trains are required to be OPERABLE to
ensure that at least one is available if a single active failure disables the other train. Total
system failure, such as from a loss of all ventilation trains or from an inoperable CRE boundary
could result in exceeding a dose of 5 rem TEDE to the CRE occupants in the event of a large
radioactive release.
In order for the CREACS trains to be considered OPERABLE, the CRE boundary must
be maintained such that the CRE occupant dose from a large radioactive release does not
exceed the calculated dose in the licensing basis consequence analyses for DBAs, and that
CRE occupants are protected from hazardous chemicals and smoke.
The LCO is modified by a Note allowing the CRE boundary to be opened intermittently
under administrative controls. This Note only applies to openings in the CRE boundary that can
be rapidly restored to the design condition, such as doors, hatches, floor plugs, and access
panels. For entry and exit through doors, the administrative control of the opening is performed
by the person(s) entering or exiting the area. For other openings, these controls are
proceduralized and consist of stationing a dedicated individual at the opening who is in
continuous communication with the operators in the CRE. This individual will have a method to
rapidly close the opening and to restore the CRE boundary to a condition equivalent to the
design condition, when a need for CRE isolation is indicated.
A significant contributor to this system's OPERABILITY are the dampers, which are required
to actuate to their correct positions. The following dampers are associated with the respective
LCO*:
a.1 Fan outlet dampers: 1(2)CAA15 and 1(2)CAA16
These dampers ensure that the flow path for CREACS is operable and are required to open
upon CREACS initiation. The associated fan outlet damper will open on fan operation.
a.4 Return air isolation damper: 1(2)CAA17
When aligned for single train operation, the associated air return isolation damper will be
administratively controlled in the open position.
b. Other dampers required for automatic operation in the pressurization or recirculation modes:
Control Area Air Conditioning System (CAACS) outside air intake isolation dampers:
1(2)CAA40, 1(2)CAA41, 1(2)CAA43 and 1(2)CAA45
The normally open outside air intake dampers 1(2)CAA40 and inlet plenum isolation
dampers 1(2)CAA43 will be closed under emergency conditions. The normally closed
outside air intake dampers 1(2)CAA41 and inlet plenum isolation dampers 1(2)CAA45 are
normally closed and remain closed under emergency conditions.
* Operability of the CREACS requires that each of the Unit 1 dampers are also
operable
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5b Amendment No. 269
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 83 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
Control Area Air Conditioning System (CAACS) exhaust isolation dampers: 1(2)CAA18 and
1(2)CAA19.
These dampers are normally closed and are required to remain closed to prevent inleakage
from the outside environment in the event of a toxic release.
Control Room Emergency Air Conditioning System (CREACS) air intake dampers:
1(2)CAA48, 1(2)CAA49, 1(2)CAA50 and 1(2)CAA51
CREACS outside air intake dampers are maintained closed during normal and
recirculation operation and are opened automatically upon initiation of CREACS pressurization.
The control logic will automatically open the CREACS air intake dampers farthest from the
radiation source based upon which Unit's Solid State Protection System (SSPS) or Radiation
Monitoring System (RMS) signal is received.
CAACS and CREACS interface isolation dampers: 1(2)CAA14 and 1(2)CAA20
These two dampers are normally open and do not have associated redundant dampers.
These dampers serve a boundary function by isolating the CREACS from the CAACS during
emergency operation of the CREACS.
Note: Dampers 1(2)CAA5, CAACS recirculation damper will receive an accident alignment signal to
ensure proper accident configuration of CAACS. This damper, however, is not required for the
OPERABILITY of CREACS as defined in the LCO.
APPLICABILITY
In all MODES and during movement of irradiated fuel assemblies, the CREACS must be
OPERABLE to ensure that the CRE will remain habitable during and following a DBA.
During movement of irradiated fuel assemblies, the CREACS must be OPERABLE to
cope with the release from a fuel handling accident, involving handling irradiated fuel.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5c Amendment No. 269
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 84 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
ACTIONS
When one CREACS train is inoperable, for reasons other than an inoperable CRE
boundary, action must be taken to align CREACS for single filtration train operation within 4
hours, and restore the inoperable filtration train to OPERABLE status within 30 days. Single
filtration train alignment is only permitted if the Unit with the operable CREACS train is also in
Chilled Water LCO 3.7.10.a configuration. Single filtration train alignment is not permitted if in
the LCO 3.7.10.c configuration. This ensures required cooling coil heat removal capacity is
available. In this Condition, the remaining OPERABLE CREACS train is adequate to perform
the CRE occupant protection function. With CREACS aligned for single filtration train operation
and with one of the two remaining fans or associated outlet damper inoperable, restore the
inoperable fan or damper to OPERABLE status within 72 hours. However, the overall reliability
is reduced because a failure in the OPERABLE CREACS train could result in loss of CREACS
function. The 72 hours completion time is based on the low probability of a DBA occurring
during this time period, and ability of the remaining train components to provide the required
capability.
If the unfiltered inleakage of potentially contaminated air past the CRE boundary and into
the CRE can result in CRE occupant radiological dose greater than the calculated dose of the
licensing basis analyses of DBA consequences (allowed to be up to 5 rem TEDE), or
inadequate protection of CRE occupants from hazardous chemicals or smoke, the CRE
boundary is inoperable. Actions must be taken to restore an OPERABLE CRE boundary within
90 days.
During the period that the CRE boundary is considered inoperable, action must be
initiated to implement mitigating actions to lessen the effect on CRE occupants from the
potential hazards of a radiological or chemical event or a challenge from smoke. Actions must
be taken within 24 hours to verify that in the event of a DBA, the mitigating actions will ensure
that CRE occupant radiological exposures will not exceed the calculated dose of the licensing
basis analyses of DBA consequences, and that CRE occupants are protected from hazardous
chemicals and smoke. These mitigating actions (i.e., actions that are taken to offset the
consequences of the inoperable CRE boundary) should be preplanned for implementation upon
entry into the condition, regardless of whether entry is intentional or unintentional. The 24-hour
completion time is reasonable based on the low probability of a DBA occurring during this time
period, and the use of mitigating actions. The 90 day completion time is reasonable based on
the determination that the mitigating actions will ensure protection of CRE occupants within
analyzed limits while limiting the probability that CRE occupants will have to implement
protective measures that may adversely affect their ability to control the reactor and maintain it
in a safe shutdown condition in the event of a DBA. In addition, the 90 day completion time is a
reasonable time to diagnose, plan and possibly repair, and test most problems with the CRE
boundary.
In MODE 1, 2, 3, or 4, if the inoperable CREACS train or the CRE boundary cannot be
restored to OPERABLE status within the required completion time, the unit must be placed in a
MODE that minimizes accident risk. To achieve this status, the unit must be placed in at least
MODE 3 within 6 hours, and in MODE 5 within the following 30 hours. The allowed completion
times are reasonable, based on operating experience, to reach the required unit conditions from
full power conditions in an orderly manner and without challenging unit systems.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5d Amendment No. 297
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 85 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
In MODE 5 or 6, or during movement of irradiated fuel assemblies, if the inoperable
CREACS train cannot be restored to OPERABLE status, align CREACS for single filtration train
operation within 4 hours, or suspend movement of irradiated fuel assemblies. With CREACS
aligned for single filtration train operation with one of the two remaining fans or associated outlet
damper inoperable, restore the fan or damper to OPERABLE status within 72 hours. The 72
hours completion time is based on the ability of the remaining train components to provide the
required capability.
In MODE 5 or 6, or during the movement of irradiated fuel assemblies, with two
CREACS trains inoperable or with one or more CREACS trains inoperable due to an inoperable
CRE boundary, action must be taken immediately to suspend activities that could result in a
release of radioactivity that might require isolation of the CRE. This places the unit in a
condition that minimizes the accident risk. This does not preclude the movement of fuel to a
safe position.
Immediate action(s), in accordance with the LCO Action Statements, means that the
required action should be pursued without delay and in a controlled manner.
SURVEILLANCE REQUIREMENTS
Standby systems should be checked periodically to ensure that they function properly.
TS Surveillance Requirement verifies that each fan is capable of operating for at least 15
minutes by initiating flow through the HEPA filter and charcoal adsorbers train(s) to ensure that
the system is available in a standby mode. The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating
experience, equipment reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance
Frequency Control Program.
Filter testing verifies that the required CREACS testing is performed in accordance with the
surveillance requirements. The surveillance requirements include testing the performance of the
HEPA filter, charcoal adsorber efficiency, minimum flow rate, and the physical properties of the
activated charcoal. Specific test Frequencies and additional information are discussed in detail in
the surveillance requirements. Filter testing will be in accordance with the applicable sections of
ANSI N510 (1975) with the exception that laboratory testing of activated carbon will be in
accordance with ASTM D3803 (1989). The acceptance criteria for the laboratory testing of the
carbon adsorber is determined by applying a minimum safety factor of 2 to the charcoal adsorber
removal efficiency credited in the design basis dose analysis as specified in Generic Letter 99-02.
Actuation testing verifies that each CREACS train starts and operates on an actual or
simulated actuation signal. The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience,
equipment reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control
Program.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5e Amendment No. 282
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 86 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
The control room envelope is considered intact and able to support operation of the
CREACS when the emergency air conditioning system is capable of maintaining positive pressure
with the control room boundary door(s) closed. Unfiltered air inleakage testing verifies the
OPERABILITY of the CRE boundary by testing for unfiltered air inleakage past the CRE boundary
and into the CRE. The details of the testing are specified in the Control Room Envelope Habitability
Program.
Each CAACS normal air intake ductwork has two radiation detector channels. The two
detector channels from Unit 1 and Unit 2 CAACS air intake provide input to common radiation
monitor processors. Each radiation monitor processor (one for 1R1B-1/1R1B-2 and one for
2R1B-1/2R1B-2) provides a signal to initiate CREACS in the pressurization mode should high
radiation be detected. A minimum of one out of two detectors in either intake will initiate the
pressurization mode. With two detector channels inoperable on a Unit, operation may continue as
long as CREACS is placed in-service in the pressurization or recirculation mode. Pressurization
mode will be initiated after 7 days with one inoperable detector. Radiological releases during a fuel
handling accident while operating in the recirculation mode could result in unacceptable radiation
levels in the CRE since the automatic initiation capability has been defeated for high radiation due
to isolation of the detectors. Therefore, movement of irradiated fuel assemblies or Core Alterations
at either Unit will not be permitted when in the recirculation mode.
The CRE is considered habitable when the radiological dose to CRE occupants
calculated in the licensing basis analyses of DBA consequences is no more than 5 rem TEDE
and the CRE occupants are protected from hazardous chemicals and smoke. The testing
verifies that the unfiltered air inleakage into the CRE is no greater than the flow rate assumed in
the licensing basis analyses of DBA consequences. When unfiltered air inleakage is greater
than the assumed flow rate, CRE boundary is inoperable. Required action allows time to restore
the CRE boundary to OPERABLE status provided mitigating actions can ensure that the CRE
remains within the licensing basis habitability limits for the occupants following an accident.
Compensatory measures are discussed in Regulatory Guide 1.196, Section C.2.7.3, which
endorses, with exceptions, NEI 99-03, Section 8.4 and Appendix F. These compensatory
measures may also be used as required mitigating actions. Options for restoring the CRE
boundary to OPERABLE status include changing the licensing basis DBA consequence
analysis, repairing the CRE boundary, or a combination of these actions. Depending upon the
nature of the problem and the corrective action, a full scope inleakage test may not be
necessary to establish that the CRE boundary has been restored to OPERABLE status.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5f Amendment No. 269
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 87 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.7 AUXILIARY BUILDING EXHAUST AIR FILTRATION SYSTEM
The Auxiliary Building Ventilation System (ABVS) consists of two major subsystems. They are
designed to control Auxiliary Building temperature during normal and emergency modes of
operation, and to contain Auxiliary Building airborne contamination (by maintaining slightly negative
pressure) during Loss of Coolant Accidents (LOCA). The two subsystems are:
1. A once through filtration exhaust system, designed to contain particulate and gaseous
contamination and prevent it from being released from the building in accordance with
10CFR20, and
2. A once through air supply system, designed to deliver outside air into the building to
maintain building temperatures within acceptable limits. For the purposes of satisfying the
Technical Specification LCO, one supply fan must be administratively removed from
service such that the fan will not auto-start on an actuation signal; however, the supply
fan must be OPERABLE with the exception of this administrative control.
These systems operate during normal and emergency plant modes. Additionally, the system
provides a flow path for containment purge supply and exhaust during Modes 5 and 6. Either the
Containment Purge system or the Auxiliary Building Ventilation System with suction from the
containment atmosphere, with associated radiation monitoring will be available whenever
movement of irradiated fuel is in progress in the containment building and the equipment hatch
is open. If for any reason, this ventilation requirement can not be met, movement of fuel
assemblies within the containment building shall be discontinued until the flow path(s) can be
reestablished or close the equipment hatch and personnel airlocks.
Appropriate filtration surveillances are contained in the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report
(UFSAR) Section 9.4.2.4, Test and Inspections. Auxiliary Building exhaust air filtration system
functionality is not required to meet LCO 3.7.7.
The ventilation exhaust consists of three 50% capacity fans that are powered from vital buses. The
fans are designed for continuous operation, to control the Auxiliary Building pressure at –0.10”
Water Gauge with respect to atmosphere.
The ventilation supply consists of two 100% capacity fans that are powered from vital buses, and
distribute outdoor air to the general areas and corridors of the building through associated
ductwork.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5g TSBC SCN 06-015

===== PAGE 88 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.7 AUXILIARY BUILDING EXHAUST AIR FILTRATION SYSTEM (cont’d)
AUXILIARY BUILDING VENTILATION ALIGNMENT MATRIX
NORMAL VENTILATION (Normal plant operations)*
Any two of the three exhaust fans and either of the two supply fans:
 The normal alignment is two exhaust fans and one supply fan. During cooler seasons,
and with the absence of the system heating coils, it may be required to limit the amount
of colder outside air entering the building. In this case, it is acceptable to secure both
supply fans from operation and reduce the number of operating exhaust fans to one.
There is sufficient capacity with the single exhaust fan to maintain the negative pressure
within the auxiliary building boundary.
EMERGENCY VENTILATION (Emergency plant operation)
At least two of the three exhaust fans and either one of the two supply fans.
Note: During a Safety Injection (SI) all three exhaust fans and one of the supply fans will start.
This is acceptable and will maintain the boundary pressure while supplying the required cooling
to the building. Should access/egress become difficult with the three exhaust fans running, one
of the exhaust fans should be secured.
OPERABILITY of the Auxiliary Building Ventilation System ensures that air,
which may contain radioactive materials leaked from ECCS equipment following a LOCA, is
monitored prior to release from the plant via the plant vent.
Operation of this system and the resultant effect on offsite and control room dose calculations
was assumed in the accident analyses. ABVS is discussed in UFSAR Section 9.4.2.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5h Amendment No. 252

===== PAGE 89 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.8 SEALED SOURCE CONTAMINATION
The limitations on removable contamination for sources requiring leak testing, including
alpha emitters, is based on 10 CFR 70.39(c) limits for plutonium. This limitation will ensure that
leakage from byproduct, source, and special nuclear material sources will not exceed allowable
intake values. Sealed sources are classified into three groups according to their use, with
surveillance requirements commensurate with the probability of damage to a source in that
group. Those sources which are frequently handled are
required to be tested more often than those which are not. Sealed sources which are
continuously enclosed within a shielded mechanism (i.e., sealed sources within radiation
monitoring or boron measuring devices) are considered to be stored and need not be tested
unless they are removed from the shielded mechanism.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-5i Amendment No.209

===== PAGE 90 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.9 SNUBBERS
All snubbers are required OPERABLE to ensure that the structural integrity of the reactor
coolant system and all other safety related systems is maintained during and following a seismic
or other event initiating dynamic loads. Snubbers excluded from the program are those installed
on nonsafety related systems and then only if their failure or failure of the system on which they
were installed, would have no adverse effect on any safety-related system.
The program for examination, testing and service life monitoring for snubbers is required to be
performed in accordance with ASME BPV Code, Section XI or the OM Code and the applicable
addenda as required by 10 CFR 50.55a(g) or 10 CFR 50.55a(b)(3)(v), except where the NRC
has granted specific written relief, pursuant to 10 CFR 50.55a(g)(6)(i), or authorized alternatives
pursuant to 10 CFR 50.55a(a)(3).
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-6 Amendment No. 284
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 91 =====

3/4.7 PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY BLANK
(Material Deleted)
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-7 Amendment No. 284
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 92 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.10 CHILLED WATER SYSTEM - AUXILIARY BUILDING SUBSYSTEM
The OPERABILITY of the chilled water system ensures that the chilled water system will
continue to provide the required normal and accident heat removal capability for the control
room area, relay rooms, equipment rooms, and other safety related areas. Verification of the
actuation of each automatic valve on a Safeguards Initiation signal includes actuation following
receipt of a Safety Injection signal.
The Auxiliary Building Chilled Water (AB CH) systems can be operated in three possible LCO
configurations:
1. Three Chillers Required (LCO 3.7.10.a)
2. Two Chillers Required (LCO 3.7.10.b)
3. Units Cross-Tied (LCO 3.7.10.c)
Three Chillers Required Configuration:
Removal of non-essential heat loads from the chilled water system in the event one
chiller is inoperable ensures the remaining heat loads are within the heat removal capacity of
the two operable chillers.
Removal of non-essential heat loads from the chilled water system in the event two
chillers are inoperable and aligning the CREACs to the maintenance mode ensures the
remaining heat loads are within the heat removal capacity of the operable chiller.
During chiller testing, operator actions can take the place of automatic actions
During Modes 5 and 6 and during movement of irradiated fuel assemblies, chilled water
components do not have to be considered inoperable solely on the basis that the backup
emergency power source, diesel generator, is inoperable. This is consistent with Technical
Specification 3.8.1.2 which only requires two operable diesel generators.
Two Chillers Required Configuration:
In Two Chiller configuration the analyses demonstrate the system will continue to provide
required cooling capability to the control room and safety related areas during normal operation
and in the event of an accident in conjunction with a single failure. The analyses for Two Chiller
configuration were performed with both trains of Control Room Emergency Air Conditioning
(CREACS) operable and one chiller operating in each unit. This configuration accounts for one
of the two required chillers in a unit being out of service and an accident and single failure (loss
of chiller) in the opposite unit. The restrictions for entering Two Chiller configuration ensure that
the heat loads are within the heat removal capacity of the remaining operable chiller. The heat
removal capacity of the chiller is based on the service water and outside air temperatures
present during the period of November 1st through April 30th. Removal of the Emergency
Control Air Compressor (ECAC) from the CH system ensures that the heat load is within the
capacity of the remaining chiller.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-8 Amendment No. 297
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 93 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
If one unit is in the Two-Chiller configuration (LCO 3.7.10.b) and the other unit is in the Three
Chiller configuration (LCO 3.7.10.a), CREACS single filtration train alignment is allowed with the
unit that is in Three Chiller configuration supplying the CREACS train. Additionally, nonessential
heat loads must be isolated from the chilled water system on BOTH Units. Alignment of the
single CREACS train to the unit in the Two-Chiller configuration is not permitted.
When entering LCO 3.7.10.b, the third chiller must have CH flow isolated to prevent
recirculation of cooling water flow through the non-operating chiller. When restoring from LCO
3.7.10.b for transitioning to the Three Chiller configuration, the third chiller may be un-isolated
under administrative controls. The administrative controls will require that an operator be
dedicated during restoration activities to re-isolate the chiller, if necessary, in the event an
accident occurs during the restoration activities.
The loss of the 2 required chillers requires the unit that has the lost the chillers to commence a
controlled shutdown (or suspend CORE ALTERATIONS and movement of irradiated fuel
assemblies if in MODES 5 or 6 or during the movement of irradiated fuel) and transition the
CREACS to single filtration operation with the opposite unit supplying the CREACS train unless
both units transition to the Cross-Tied configuration. In the event that the Cross-tied
configuration cannot be implemented or the transition to CREACS single filtration train
alignment cannot be implemented, both units will commence a controlled shutdown (or suspend
CORE ALTERATIONS and movement of irradiated fuel assemblies if in MODES 5 or 6 or
during the movement of irradiated fuel).
Required operating conditions will be verified every 24-hours (SR 4.7.10.d) when in the Two-
Chiller configuration.
Cross-Tied Configuration:
In Cross-tie configuration the analyses demonstrate the system will continue to provide required
cooling capability to the control room and safety related areas during normal operation and in
the event of an accident in either unit. The supporting calculations were performed assuming
that one of the required chillers is unavailable due to either a single failure or being out of
service (two chillers remaining).
The analyses for Cross-Tied configuration determined that both train of CREACS must be
operable. With only a single train of CREACS operable, the remaining CREACS cooling coil
cannot maintain the control room envelope temperatures within acceptable limits. Therefore,
entry into CH Cross-Tied configuration is only allowed when both trains of CREACS are
operable. A note is added to TS 3.7.6 Action a to alert operators that CREACS single filtration
operation is not permitted if the units are in the CH Cross-tied configuration.
The restrictions for entering the Cross-Tied configuration ensure that the heat loads are within the
heat removal capacity of the remaining two operable chillers. The heat removal capacity of the
chillers is based on the service water and outside air temperatures present during the
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-8a Amendment No. 297
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 94 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
period of November 1st through April 30th. Removal of both units’ ECACs and both units’ non-
essential heat loads from the CH system ensures that the heat load is within the capacity of the
remaining chillers.
When restoring from LCO 3.7.10.c, the cross-tie valve can be closed under administrative
controls. The administrative controls will require that an operator be dedicated during restoration
activities to re-open the cross-tie valve, if necessary, in the event an accident occurs during the
restoration activities.
If two Chillers become inoperable in Cross-Tie configuration then both units must commence a
controlled shutdown (or suspend CORE ALTERATIONS and movement of irradiated fuel
assemblies if in MODES 5 or 6 or during the movement of irradiated fuel).
Required operating conditions will be verified every 24-hours (SR 4.7.10.e) when in the Cross-
Tied configuration.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-8b Amendment No. 297
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 95 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.11 FUEL STORAGE POOL BORON CONCENTRATION
In the Maximum Density Rack (MDR) design, the spent fuel storage pool is divided into
two separate and distinct regions. Region 1, with 300 storage positions, is designed to
accommodate new fuel with a maximum enrichment of 4.25 wt% U-235. Unirradiated and
irradiated fuel with initial enrichments up to 5.0 wt% U-235 can also be stored in Region 1 with
some restrictions. These restrictions are stated in TS 3/4.7.12. Region 2, with 1332 storage
positions, is designed to accommodate unirradiated and irradiated fuel with stricter controls as
compared to Region 1. These controls are also stated in TS 3/4.7.12.
The water in the spent fuel storage pool normally contains soluble boron, which results
in large subcriticality margins under actual operating conditions. However, the NRC guidelines,
based upon the accident condition in which all soluble poison is assumed to have been lost,
specify that the limiting k of 0.95 be evaluated in the absence of soluble boron. Hence, the
eff
design of both regions is based on the use of unborated water, which maintains each region in a
subcritical condition during normal operation with the regions fully loaded. The double
contingency principle discussed in ANSI N-16.1-1975 and the USNRC letter of April 14, 1978, to
all Power Reactor Licensees – OT Position for Review and Acceptance of Spent Fuel Storage
and Handling Applications (Accession # 7910310568) allows credit for soluble boron under
other abnormal or accident conditions, consistent with postulated accident scenarios. For
example, the most severe accident scenario is associated with the abnormal location of a fresh
fuel assembly of 5.0 wt% enrichment which could, in the absence of soluble poison, result in
exceeding the design reactivity limitation (k of 0.95). This could occur if a fresh fuel assembly
eff
of 5.0 wt% enrichment were to be inadvertently loaded into a Region 1 or Region 2 storage cell
otherwise filled to capacity. To mitigate these postulated criticality related accidents, boron is
dissolved in the pool water. Calculations for the worst case configuration confirmed that 800
ppm soluble boron (includes an appropriate allowance for boron concentration measurement
uncertainty)is adequate to compensate for a mis-located fuel assembly. Subcriticality of the
MDR with no movement of assemblies is achieved without credit for soluble boron and by
controlling the location of each assembly in accordance with TS 3/4.7.12. Prior to movement of
an assembly, it is necessary to verify the fuel storage pool boron concentration is within limit in
accordance with TS 3/4.7.11.
Most postulated abnormal conditions or accidents in the spent fuel pool do not result in
an increase in the reactivity of either MDR region. For example, an event that results in an
increase in spent fuel pool temperature or a decrease in water density will not result in a
reactivity increase. An event that results in the spent fuel pool cooling down below normal
conditions does not impact the criticality analysis since the analysis assumes a water
temperature of 4C. This assures that the reactivity will always be lower over the expected
range of water temperatures.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-9 Amendment No.244

===== PAGE 96 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.11 FUEL STORAGE POOL BORON CONCENTRATION (continued)
However, accidents can be postulated that could increase the reactivity. This increase
in reactivity is unacceptable with unborated water in the storage pool. Thus, for these accident
occurrences, the presence of soluble boron in the storage pool prevents criticality exceeding
limits in both regions. The postulated accidents are basically of three types. The first type of
postulated accident is an abnormal location of a fuel assembly, the second type of postulated
accident is associated with lateral rack movement, and the third type of postulated accident is a
dropped fuel assembly on the top of the rack. The dropped fuel assembly and the lateral rack
movement have been previously shown to have negligible reactivity effects (<0.0001 k). The
misplacement of a fuel assembly could result in Keff exceeding the 0.95 limit. However, the
negative reactivity effect of a minimum soluble boron concentration of 600 ppm compensates for
the increased reactivity caused by any of the postulated accident scenarios. The accident
analyses are summarized in the FSAR Section 9.1.2.
The determination of 600 ppm has included the necessary tolerances and uncertainties
associated with fuel storage rack criticality analyses. To ensure that soluble boron
concentration measurement uncertainty is appropriately considered, additional margin is
incorporated into the limiting condition for operation. As such, increasing the minimum required
boron concentration in the fuel storage pool to 800 ppm conservatively covers the expected
range of boron reactivity worth along with allowances associated with boron measurements.
The concentration of dissolved boron in the fuel storage pool satisfies Criterion 2 of
10 CFR 50.36(c)(2)(ii). The fuel storage pool boron concentration is required to be greater than
or equal to 800 ppm. The specified concentration of dissolved boron in the fuel storage pool
preserves the assumptions used in the analyses of the potential critical accident scenarios.
This concentration of dissolved boron is the minimum required concentration for fuel assembly
storage and movement within the fuel storage pool.
This LCO applies whenever fuel assemblies are stored in the spent fuel storage pool,
until a complete spent fuel storage pool verification has been performed following the last
movement of fuel assemblies in the spent fuel storage pool. This LCO does not apply following
the verification, since the verification would confirm that there are no misloaded fuel assemblies.
With no further fuel assembly movements in progress, there is no potential for a misloaded fuel
assembly or a dropped fuel assembly.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-10 Amendment No. 244

===== PAGE 97 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.11 FUEL STORAGE POOL BORON CONCENTRATION (continued)
The Required Actions are modified indicating that LCO 3.0.3 does not apply. Storage of
fuel assemblies and the boron concentration in the spent fuel storage pool are independent of
reactor operation. Therefore TS 3/4 3.7.11 and TS3/ 4 3.7.12 include the exception to LCO
3.0.3 to preclude an inappropriate reactor shutdown. When the concentration of boron in the
fuel storage pool is less than required, immediate action must be taken to preclude the
occurrence of an accident or to mitigate the consequences of an accident in progress. This is
most efficiently achieved by immediately suspending the movement of fuel assemblies. The
concentration of boron is restored simultaneously with suspending movement of fuel
assemblies. Alternatively, beginning a verification of the fuel storage pool fuel locations, to
ensure proper locations of the fuel, can be performed. However, prior to resuming movement of
fuel assemblies, the concentration of boron must be restored. This does not preclude
movement of a fuel assembly to a safe position. If the LCO is not met while moving fuel
assemblies in the spent fuel pool while in MODE 5 or 6, LCO 3.0.3 would not be applicable. If
moving fuel assemblies in the spent fuel pool while in MODE 1, 2, 3, or 4, the fuel movement is
independent of reactor operation. Therefore, inability to suspend movement of fuel assemblies
is not sufficient reason to require a reactor shutdown.
This SR verifies that the concentration of boron in the fuel storage pool is within the required
limit. As long as this SR is met, the analyzed accidents are fully addressed. The Surveillance
Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment reliability, and plant risk and is
controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-11 Amendment No. 282
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 98 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.12 FUEL ASSEMBLY STORAGE IN THE SPENT FUEL POOL
In the Maximum Density Rack (MDR) design, the spent fuel storage pool is divided into
two separate and distinct regions. Region 1, with 300 storage positions, is designed to
accommodate new fuel with a maximum enrichment of 4.25 wt% U-235. Unirradiated and
irradiated fuel with initial enrichments up to 5.0 wt% U-235 can also be stored in Region 1 with
some restrictions. These restrictions are stated in TS 3/4.7.12. Region 2, with 1332 storage
positions, is designed to accommodate unirradiated and irradiated fuel with stricter controls as
compared to Region 1. These controls are also stated in TS 3/4.7.12.
The water in the spent fuel storage pool normally contains soluble boron, which results
in large subcriticality margins under actual operating conditions. However, the NRC guidelines,
based upon the accident condition in which all soluble poison is assumed to have been lost,
specify that the limiting k of 0.95 be evaluated in the absence of soluble boron. Hence, the
eff
design of both regions is based on the use of unborated water, which maintains each region in a
subcritical condition during normal operation with the regions fully loaded. The double
contingency principle discussed in ANSI N-16.1-1975 and the USNRC letter of April 14, 1978, to
all Power Reactor Licensees – OT Position for Review and Acceptance of Spent Fuel Storage
and Handling Applications (Accession # 7910310568) allows credit for soluble boron under
other abnormal or accident conditions, since only a single accident need be considered at one
time. For example, the most severe accident scenario is associated with the abnormal location
of a fresh fuel assembly of 5.0 wt% enrichment which could, in the absence of soluble poison,
result in exceeding the design reactivity limitation (k of 0.95). This could occur if a fresh fuel
eff
assembly of 5.0 wt% enrichment were to be inadvertently loaded into a Region 1 or Region 2
storage cell otherwise filled to capacity, for any of the configurations. To mitigate these
postulated criticality related accidents, boron is dissolved in the pool water. Calculations for the
worst case configuration confirmed that 800 ppm soluble boron (includes an appropriate
allowance for boron concentration measurement uncertainty) is adequate to compensate for a
mis-located fuel assembly. Safe operation of the MDR with no movement of assemblies may
therefore be achieved by controlling the location of each assembly in accordance with TS
3/4.7.12. Prior to movement of an assembly into a fuel assembly storage location in Region 1 or
Region 2, it is necessary to perform SR 4.7.11 and either SR 4.7.12.1 or SR 4.7.12.2. In
summary, before moving an assembly into the storage racks it is necessary to:
 validate that its final location meets the criticality requirements;
 and since there is a potential to misload the assembly, we need to ensure that the Fuel
Storage Pool boron concentration is greater than the minimum required to preclude exceeding
criticality limits prior to moving.
The configuration of fuel assemblies in the fuel storage pool satisfies Criterion 2 of 10
CFR 50.36(c)(2)(ii).
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 7-12 Amendment No.244

===== PAGE 99 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.7.12 FUEL ASSEMBLY STORAGE IN THE SPENT FUEL POOL (CONTINUED)
The restrictions on the placement of fuel assemblies within the spent fuel pool in accordance
with TS 3/4.7.12, in the accompanying LCO, ensures the k of the spent fuel storage pool will
eff
always remain < 0.95, assuming the pool to be flooded with unborated water.
This LCO applies whenever any fuel assembly is stored in Region 1 or Region 2 of the fuel
storage pool.
The Required Actions are modified indicating that LCO3.0.3 does not apply. Storage of fuel
assemblies and the boron concentration in the spent fuel storage pool are independent of reactor
operation. Therefore TS 3/4.3.7.11 and TS 3/4.3.7.12 include the exception to LCO 3.0.3 to
preclude an inappropriate reactor shutdown. When the configuration of fuel assemblies stored in
Region 1 or Region 2 of the spent fuel storage pool is not in accordance with TS 3/4.7.12, the
immediate action is to initiate action to make the necessary fuel assembly movement(s) to bring
the configuration into compliance with TS 3/4.7.12. If unable to move fuel assemblies while in
MODE 5 or 6, LCO 3.0.3 would not be applicable. If unable to move fuel assemblies while in
MODE 1, 2, 3, or 4, the action is independent of reactor operation. Therefore, inability to move
fuel assemblies is not sufficient reason to require a reactor shutdown.
The SR verifies by administrative means that the initial enrichment and burnup of the fuel
assembly is in accordance with TS 3/4.7.12 in the accompanying LCO.
3/4.7.13 Main Feedwater Isolation Valves (FIVs), Main Feedwater Regulating Valves (FRVs),
FRV Bypass Valves (FRVBVs), and Steam Generator Feedwater Pump (SGFP) Turbine Steam
Stop Valves
The OPERABILITY of the FIVs (BF13s), FRVs (BF19s), FRVBVs (BF40s) and SGFP turbine
steam stop valves (MS43s and RS15s) ensures that the valves will be capable of performing
their intended safety function. The safety function of these valves is to rapidly close following: (1)
a steam line or feedwater line rupture, thereby limiting the Reactor Coolant System cooldown
and limiting the total energy release to the containment; or (2) a feedwater system malfunction,
thereby limiting Reactor Coolant System cooldown.
The analysis of excessive RCS heat removal due to a feedwater system malfunction (UFSAR
Section 15.2.1 0) assumes full opening of one or more FRVs, due to a control system
malfunction or operator error, resulting in a step increase in feedwater flow to one or more steam
generators. The analysis assumes a feedwater isolation signal is generated by a high-high
steam generator level or a safety injection (SI) signal. Feedwater isolation is assumed to occur
as a result of the FIV(s) closing in 32 seconds and failure of the FRV(s) and associated
FRVBV(s) to close as a result of the feedwater isolation signal. The trip of the SGFPs is not
credited in the feedwater system malfunction analysis.
Rupture of a steam line (UFSAR Section 15.4.2) is analyzed to determine the response of the
reactor core and to determine the resulting mass and energy releases. Two separate analyses
are performed since conservative assumptions for the core response analysis are different than
the conservative assumptions for the mass and energy release analysis.
Salem - Unit 2 B 3/4 7-13 Amendment No. 310
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 100 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
The core response analysis credits feedwater isolation as a result of the safety injection signal
which results in a feedwater isolation signal. For the steam generators with the non-faulted
steam line, feedwater isolation is assumed to occur as a result of closure of all FRVs and
FRVBVs in 10 seconds following receipt of the Sl signal. For the steam generator with the faulted
steam line, the FRV is assumed to fail with feedwater isolation achieved by closure of the FIV in
32 seconds following receipt of the Sl signal.
The mass and energy release analysis assumes feedwater isolation occurs as a result of the Sl
signal which generates the feedwater isolation signal. The most limiting case for mass addition to
the containment assumes failure of the FRV to close in the loop with the faulted steam line.
Feedwater isolation occurs as a result of closure of the FIVs in 32 seconds and tripping of the
SGFPs in 7 seconds. Reduction of feedwater flow due to SGFP coast down and closure of the
FIV is credited in the containment analysis.
Rupture of a feedwater line between the feedwater stop-check valve and the steam generator
(UFSAR Section 15.4.3) is analyzed to determine the response of the reactor core. The
feedwater line break could cause either a reactor coolant system (RCS) cooldown or a heat up
depending on the size of the rupture.
The RCS cooldown for a feedwater line rupture is bounded by the analysis for a steam line
rupture. For the RCS heatup analysis, main feedwater to all steam generators is assumed to
stop at the time of the feedwater line rupture due to the feedwater spilling out the break. A
feedwater isolation signal is generated as a result of the safety injection signal and is
accomplished by closure of the FRVs and FRVBVs in 10 seconds following receipt of the Sl
signal.
The mass and energy release that would result from a rupture of a main feedwater line inside
containment is bounded by the analysis of the rupture of a main steam line.
The APPLICABILITY of this specification is MODES 1, 2, and 3, except when:
 a FIV or FRV and FRVBV valve are closed and deactivated or the main feedwater line is
isolated by a closed manual valve; or
 the SGFP turbine steam stop valve is closed and deactivated or the steam supply to the
SGFP turbine is isolated, or the SGFP discharge to the steam generators is isolated.
The basis for the mode applicability is that in MODES 1 and 2 there is significant mass and
energy in the RCS and steam generators and in MODE 3 there may be significant mass and
energy in the RCS and steam generators. With significant mass and energy in the RCS and
steam generators, the valves are needed for isolation of the steam generators in the event of a
secondary system pipe rupture. The mode applicability is modified by exception based upon the
impacted valve or SGFP being placed in its required accident-analysis assumed position or the
flow path being isolated such that the credited accident analysis function has already been
completed.
Salem - Unit 2 B 3/4 7-14 Amendment No. 310
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 101 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
The ACTION statements for an inoperable FIV, FRV, or FRVBV require that action must be
taken to restore the affected valves to OPERABLE status, or to close or isolate the inoperable
affected valves within 72 hours. When these valves are closed or isolated, they are performing
their required safety function. The 72 hour action time takes into account the redundancy
afforded by the remaining OPERABLE valves and the low probability of an event occurring
during this time period that would require isolation of the feedwater flow paths. The 72 hour
action time is reasonable, based on operating experience.
The ACTION statement for an inoperable SGFP turbine steam stop valve requires that action
must be taken to restore the affected valves to OPERABLE status, or isolate the associated
steam supply to the SGFP, or isolate the associated SGFP feedwater flow path within 72 hours.
When the SGFP steam stop valves are closed or isolated, or the SGFP feedwater flow path is
isolated, the required safety function has been completed. The 72 hour action time takes into
account the redundancy afforded by the remaining OPERABLE valves and the low probability of
an event occurring during this time period that would require isolation of the MFW flow paths.
The 72 hour action time is reasonable, based on operating experience.
Inoperable valves that are closed or isolated must be verified on a periodic basis that they are
closed or isolated. This is necessary to ensure that the assumptions in the safety analysis
remain valid. The 7 day action time is reasonable, based on engineering judgment, in view of
valve status indications available in the control room, and other administrative controls, to ensure
that these valves are closed or isolated.
Separate ACTION entry is allowed for each inoperable valve unless there is a loss of feedwater
isolation capability for a flow path. Redundant components in the flow path would perform the
feedwater isolation function.
With either (1) a FRV or FRVBV and FIV inoperable, or (2) SGFP turbine steam stop valve
(resulting in a loss of SGFP trip function) and FRV or FRVBV inoperable, there may be no
redundant system to operate automatically and perform the required safety function. Under these
conditions, affected valves in each flow path must be restored to OPERABLE status, or the
affected flow path isolated within 8 hours. This action returns the system to the condition where
at least one valve in each flow path is performing the required safety function. The 8 hour
Completion Time is reasonable, based on operating experience, to complete the actions required
to close the FIV, FRV, FRVBV, or SGFP turbine steam stop valve, or otherwise isolate the
affected flow path. With both a SGFP turbine steam stop valve and FIV inoperable, the FRV and
FRVBV will operate automatically to provide feedwater isolation for the flow path.
If the FIV(s), FRV(s), FRVBV(s) and SGFP turbine steam stop valves cannot be restored to
OPERABLE status, or closed, or the flow path isolated within the associated allowed outage
time, the unit must be placed in a MODE in which the LCO does not apply. To achieve this
status, the unit must be placed in at least HOT STANDBY (MODE 3) within 6 hours and in HOT
SHUTDOWN (MODE 4) within the following 6 hours. The allowed Completion Times are
reasonable, based on operating experience, to reach the required unit conditions from full power
conditions in an orderly manner and without challenging unit systems.
Salem - Unit 2 B 3/4 7-15 Amendment No. 310
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 102 =====

PLANT SYSTEMS
BASES
SR 4.7.13.1 verifies that the closure time of each FIV, FRV, FRV bypass and SGFP turbine
steam stop valve is within the limit in the Technical Requirements Manual and is within that
assumed in the accident and containment analyses. This SR also verifies the valve closure time
is in accordance with the lnservice Testing Program. The Frequency for this SR is in accordance
with the lnservice Testing Program.
SR 4.7.13.2 verifies that each FIV, FRV, FRV bypass and SGFP turbine steam stop valve can
close on an actual or simulated actuation signal. This Surveillance is normally performed upon
returning the plant to operation following a refueling outage. The Surveillance Frequency is
controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
Salem - Unit 2 B 3/4 7-16 Amendment No. 310
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 103 =====

3/4.8 ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS
BASES
3/4.8.1 and 3/4.8.2 A.C. SOURCES AND ONSITE POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
The OPERABILITY of the A.C. and D.C power sources and associated distribution
systems during operation ensures that sufficient power will be available to supply the safety
related equipment required for 1) the safe shutdown of the facility, and 2) the mitigation and
control of accident conditions within the facility. The minimum specified independent and
redundant A.C. and D.C. power sources and distribution systems satisfy the requirements of
General Design Criterion 17 of Appendix "A" to 10 CFR Part 50.
The ACTION requirements specified for the levels of degradation of the power sources
provide restriction upon continued facility operation commensurate with the level of degradation.
The OPERABILITY of the power sources are consistent with the initial condition assumptions of
the accident analyses and are based upon maintaining at least two independent sets of onsite
A.C. and D.C. power sources and associated distribution systems OPERABLE during accident
conditions coincident with an assumed loss of offsite power and single failure of one onsite A.C.
source.
When a system or component is determined to be inoperable solely because its
emergency power source is inoperable, or solely because its normal power source is
inoperable, it may still be considered OPERABLE, provided the appropriate Actions of
3.8.1.1.a.2, b.2 or d.2 are satisfied.
Action 3.8.1.1.a.2, which only applies if the train cannot be powered from an offsite
source, is intended to provide assurance that an event coincident with a single failure of the
associated DG will not result in a complete loss of safety function of critical redundant required
systems. Failure of a single offsite circuit will generally not, by itself, cause any equipment to
lose normal AC power. Action 3.8.1.1.b.2 is intended to provide assurance that a loss of offsite
power, during the period that a DG is inoperable, does not result in a complete loss of safety
function of critical systems. Action 3.8.1.1.d.2, which applies when two offsite circuits are
inoperable, is intended to provide assurance that an event with a coincident single failure will
not result in a complete loss of redundant required safety functions.
These systems are powered from the independent AC electrical power train. However,
redundant required systems or components credited by this specification are not necessarily
powered from AC electrical sources. For example, the single train turbine-driven auxiliary
feedwater pump is redundant to the two motor-driven pumps. Redundant required system or
component failures consist of inoperable equipment associated with a train, redundant to the
train that has an inoperable DG or offsite power.
LCO 3.0.4.b is not applicable to an inoperable DG. There is an increased risk associated with
entering a MODE or other specified condition in the Applicability with an inoperable DG. The
provisions of LCO 3.0.4.b, which allow entry into a MODE or other specified condition in the
Applicability with the LCO not met after performance of a risk assessment addressing
inoperable systems and components, should not be applied in this circumstance.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 8-1 Amendment No. 258

===== PAGE 104 =====

3/4.8 ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS
BASES (Continued)
The completion time for these actions is intended to allow the operator time to evaluate and repair
any discovered inoperabilities. This completion time also allows for an exception to the normal “time
zero” for beginning the allowed outage time clock, starting only on discovery that both:
a. One train has no offsite power supplying its loads, one DG is inoperable or two required
offsite circuits are inoperable; and
b. A required system or component on the other train is inoperable.
If at any time during these conditions a redundant required system or component subsequently
becomes inoperable, this completion time begins to be tracked. Discovering no offsite power to one
train of the onsite Class 1E Electrical Power Distribution System, or one required DG inoperable,
coincident with one or more inoperable required support or supported systems or components that
are associated with the other train that has power, results in starting the completion times for the
Action. The specified time is acceptable because it minimizes risk while allowing time for restoration
before subjecting the unit to transients associated with shutdown.
The remaining OPERABLE AC supplies (one offsite circuit and three DGs for Condition (a), two
offsite circuits and two DGs for Condition (b), or three DGs for Condition (d)) are adequate to supply
electrical power to the onsite Class 1E Distribution System. Thus, on a component basis, single
failure protection for the required system or component’s function may have been lost; however,
function has not been lost. The completion time takes into account the component OPERABILITY of
the redundant counterpart to the inoperable required system or component. Additionally, the
completion time takes into account the capacity and capability of the remaining AC sources, a
reasonable time for repairs, and the low probability of a DBA occurring during this period. The
completion time for Condition d (loss of both offsite circuits) is reduced to 12 hours from that allowed
for one train without offsite power (Action 3.8.1.1.a.2). The rationale is that Regulatory Guide 1.93
allows a completion time of 24 hours for two required offsite circuits inoperable, based upon the
assumption that two complete safety trains are OPERABLE. When a concurrent redundant required
system or component failure exists, this assumption is not the case, and a shorter completion time of
12 hours is appropriate.
LCO 3.8.1.1, Action b.4.a.2 allows the Allowed Outage Time (AOT) for an inoperable emergency
diesel generator (EDG) to extend from 72 hours to 14 days provided the availability of the
supplemental power source is verified within the initial 72-hour period and once per 12 hours
thereafter. The supplemental power source provides additional defense-in depth during the
extended AOT. In the event the supplemental power source cannot be verified available during the
AOT, 72 hours is allowed to restore the SPS to available status or the EDG to OPERABLE status.
In the event TS Action statement 3.8.1.1.b is entered for an inoperable EDG for greater than or
equal to 48 hours, then only 24 hours is allowed to return the SPS to available status or the EDG to
OPERABLE status. The 24 hour allowance for an unavailable SPS can be entered more than once
to address unanticipated conditions associated with the SPS.
When utilizing the extended EDG AOT (greater than 72 hours and less than or equal to 14 days), the
following regulatory commitments shall be implemented:
1. When an EDG is removed from service for an extended 14-day AOT, the Turbine
Driven Auxiliary Feedwater Pump and supporting systems and components shall be
operable.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 8-1a Amendment No. 327
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 105 =====

3/4.8 ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS
BASES (Continued)
2. Component testing or maintenance of safety systems and important non safety
equipment in the offsite power systems that can increase the likelihood of a plant
transient (unit trip) or LOOP will be avoided. In addition, no discretionary switchyard
maintenance will be performed.
3. Voluntary entry into this extended 14 day AOT should not be scheduled if adverse
weather conditions are expected.
4. The system load dispatcher will be contacted once per day to ensure no significant
grid perturbations (high grid loading unable to withstand a single contingency of line
or generation outage) are expected during the extended diesel generator AOT.
5. Licensed Operators and Auxiliary Operators will be appropriately trained on the
purpose and use of the Supplemental Power Source (AOT diesels).
6. Operating crews will be briefed on the EDG work plan and procedural actions
regarding LOOP and SBO, prior to entering the extended 14 day EDG AOT.
If one or more of the above commitments is not met while in the extended completion time, the
corrective action program shall be entered, the risk managed in accordance with the Maintenance
Rule, and the commitment(s) restored without delay.
The OPERABILITY of the minimum specified A.C. and D.C. power sources and associated
distribution systems during shutdown and refueling ensures that 1) the facility can be maintained in
the shutdown or refueling condition for extended time periods and 2) sufficient instrumentation and
control capability is available for monitoring and maintaining the unit status.
The Applicability of specifications 3.8.2.2, 3.8.2.4, and 3.8.2.6 includes the movement of irradiated
fuel assemblies. This will insure adequate electrical power is available for proper operation of the
fuel handling building ventilation system during movement of irradiated fuel in the spent fuel pool.
An offsite circuit would be considered inoperable if it were not available to one required train.
Although two trains are required by LCOs 3.8.2.2 and 3.8.2.4, the one train with offsite power
available may be capable of supporting sufficient required features to allow continuation of CORE
ALTERATIONS and irradiated fuel movement. By the allowance of the option to declare required
features inoperable, with no offsite power available, appropriate restrictions will be implemented in
accordance with the affected required features LCO’s actions.
With the offsite circuit or diesel generator not available to all required trains, the option exists to
declare all required features inoperable. Since this option may involve undesired administrative
efforts, the allowance for sufficiently conservative actions is made. With both required diesel
generators inoperable, the minimum required diversity of AC power sources is not available.
Therefore, it is required to suspend CORE ALTERATIONS, movement of irradiated fuel assemblies,
and operations involving positive reactivity additions that could result in loss of required shutdown
margin or boron concentration. Suspending positive reactivity additions that could result in failure to
meet the minimum shutdown margin or boron concentration limit is required to assure continued
safe operation.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 8-2 Amendment No. 327
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 106 =====

3/4.8 ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS
BASES (Continued)
The Surveillance Requirements for demonstrating the OPERABILITY of the diesel generators are
based upon the recommendations of Regulatory Guide 1.9, "Selection of Diesel Generator Set
Capacity for Standby Power Supplies," March 10, 1971, and Regulatory Guide 1.108, "Periodic
Testing of Diesel Generator Units Used as Onsite Electric Power Systems at Nuclear Power Plants,"
Revision 1, August 1977. The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment
reliability, and plant risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
Regulatory Guide 1.108 criteria for determining and reporting valid tests and failures, and
accelerated diesel generator testing, have been superseded by implementation of the Maintenance
Rule for the diesel generators per 10CFR50.65. In addition to the Surveillance Requirements of
4.8.1.1.2, diesel preventative maintenance is performed in accordance with procedures based on
manufacturer's recommendations with consideration given to operating experience.
The minimum voltage and frequency stated in the Surveillance Requirements (SR) are those
necessary to ensure the Emergency Diesel Generator (EDG) can accept Design Basis Accident
(DBA) loading while maintaining acceptable voltage and frequency levels. Stable operation at the
nominal voltage and frequency values is also essential in establishing EDG OPERATILITY, but a
time constraint is not imposed. The lack of a time constraint is based on the fact that a typical EDG
will experience a period of voltage and frequency oscillations prior to reaching steady state operation
if these oscillations are not dampened out by load application. In lieu of a time constraint in the SR,
controls will be provided to monitor and trend the actual time to reach stable operation within the
band as a means of ensuring there is no voltage regulator or governor degradation that could cause
an EDG to become inoperable.
"Standby condition" for the purpose of defining the condition of the engine immediately prior to
starting for surveillance requirements requires that the lube oil temperature be between 100 °F and
170 °F. The minimum lube oil temperature for an OPERABLE diesel is 100 °F.
The thirteen second time requirement for the Emergency Diesel Generator to reach rated voltage
and frequency was originally based on a Westinghouse assumption of fifteen seconds that included
the delay time between the occurrence of the incident and the application of electrical power to the
first sequenced safeguards pump (BURL-3011, dated November 13, 1974) and included an
instrument response time of two seconds (BURL-1531, dated July 27, 1970). The times specified in
UFSAR Section 15.4 bound the thirteen seconds specified in the TS.
The narrower band for frequency specified for testing performed in steady state isochronous
operation will ensure the EDG will not be run in an overloaded condition (steady state) during
accident conditions. Steady state is assumed to be achieved after one minute of operation in the
isochronous mode with all required loads sequenced on the bus.
The narrower band for steady state voltage is specified for operation when the EDG is not
synchronized to the grid to ensure the voltage regulator will protect driven equipment from over-
voltages during accident conditions. Procedural controls will ensure that equipment voltages are
maintained within acceptable limits during testing when paralleled to the grid.
The wider band for frequency is appropriate for testing done with the governor in the droop mode.
Likewise the wider band for voltage is appropriate when paralleled to the grid.
All voltages and frequencies specified in SR 4.8.1.1.2 are representative of the analytical values and
do not account for postulated instrument inaccuracy. Instrument inaccuracies for EDG voltage and
frequency are administratively controlled.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 8-3 Amendment No. 327
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 107 =====

3/4.8 ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS
BASES (Continued)
Preventive maintenance includes those activities (including pro-test inspections, measurements,
adjustments and preparations) performed to maintain an otherwise OPERABLE EDG in an
OPERABLE status. Corrective maintenance includes those activities required to correct a condition
that would cause the EDG to be inoperable.
Technical Specification Surveillance 4.8.1.1.3.b requires verification of two of the categories of Table
1 of ASTM D975-77, those being 1) Water and Sediment and 2) Viscosity. The required values for
these two categories have not changed throughout the history of ASTM D975 and are applicable to
S15, S500, and S5000 fuel. Additional requirements for testing exist per Reg Guide 1.137 (Rev. 1)
and the Aging Management Program. Necessary fuel oil testing is contained in Salem purchase
specification S-C-M255-NDS-0181, and in procedure SC.OP-LB.DF-0001.
Surveillance requirement 4.8.1.2 is modified by a Note. The reason for the Note is to preclude
requiring the OPERABLE DG(s) from being paralleled with the offsite power network or otherwise
rendered inoperable during performance of the surveillance requirement, and to preclude de-
energizing a required ESF bus or disconnecting a required offsite circuit during performance of
surveillance requirements. With limited AC sources available, a single event could compromise both
the required circuit and the DG. It is the intent that these surveillance requirements must still be
capable of being met, but actual performance is not required during periods when the DG and offsite
circuit are required to be OPERABLE. During Startup, prior to entering Mode 4, the surveillance
requirements are required to be completed if the surveillance frequency has been exceeded or will
be exceeded prior to the next scheduled shutdown.
3/4.8.3 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT PROTECTIVE DEVICES
Containment electrical penetrations and penetration conductors are protected by either deenergizing
circuits not required during reactor operation or by demonstrating the OPERABILITY of primary and
backup overcurrent protection circuit breakers during periodic surveillance.
The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment reliability, and plant
risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program. Each manufacturer's
molded case circuit breakers and lower voltage circuit breakers are grouped into representative
samples which are then tested on a rotating basis to ensure that all breakers are tested. If a wide
variety exists within any manufacturer's brand of molded case or lower voltage circuit breakers, it is
necessary to further divide that manufacturer's breakers into groups and treat each group as a
separate type of breaker for surveillance purposes.
Containment penetration conductor overcurrent protective device information is provided in the
UFSAR.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 8-4 Amendment No. 327
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 108 =====

3/4.9 REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
3/4.9.1 BORON CONCENTRATION
The limit on the boron concentration of the Reactor Coolant System (RCS), the
refueling cavity, the fuel storage pool and the refueling canal during
refueling ensures that the reactor remains subcritical during Mode 6.
Refueling boron concentration is the soluble boron concentration in the
coolant in each of these volumes having direct access to the reactor core
during refueling.
The soluble boron concentration offsets the core reactivity and is measured by
chemical analysis of a representative sample of the coolant in each of the
volumes. The refueling boron concentration limit is specified in the Core
Operating Limits Report (COLR). Plant procedures ensure the specified boron
concentration in order to maintain an overall core reactivity of Keff ~ 0.95
during fuel handling, with control rods and fuel assemblies assumed to be in
the most adverse configuration (least negative reactivity) allowed by plant
procedures.
General Design Criterion 26 of l0CFR 50, Appendix A requires that two
independent reactivity control systems of different design principles be
provided. One of these systems must be capable of holding the reactor core
subcritical under cold conditions. The Chemical and Volume Control System
(CVCS) is the system capable of maintaining the reactor subcritical in cold
conditions by maintaining the boron concentration.
The reactor is brought to shutdown conditions before beginning operations to
open the reactor vessel for refueling. After the RCS is cooled and
depressurized and the vessel head is unbolted, the head is slowly removed to
form the refueling cavity. The refueling canal and the refueling cavity are
then flooded with borated water from the refueling water storage tank through
the open reactor vessel by gravity feeding or by the use of the Residual Heat
Removal (RHR) System pumps. The fuel storage pool is also adjusted to the
refueling boron concentration specified in the COLR.
The pumping action of the RHR System in the RCS and the natural circulation
due to thermal driving heads in the reactor vessel and refueling cavity mix
the added concentrated boric acid with the water in the refueling canal, The
RHR System is in operation during refueling (see TS 3/4.9.8, "Residual Heat
Removal (RHR) and Coolant Circulation - All Water levels, "and "Low Water
Level") to provide forced circulation in the RCS and assist in maintaining the
boron concentrations in the RCS, the refueling canal, and the refueling cavity
above the COLR limit.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 9-1 Amendment No . 2,4.4.

===== PAGE 109 =====

3/4.9 REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
During refueling operations, the reactivity condition of the core is
consistent with the initial conditions assumed for the boron dilution accident
in the accident analysis and is conservative for MODE 6. The boron
concentration limit specified in the COLR is based on the core
reactivity at the beginning of each fuel cycle (the end of refueling) and
includes an uncertainty allowance. The required boron concentration and the
plant refueling procedures that verify the correct fuel-loading plan
(including full core mapping) ensure that the Keff of the core will remain
S 0.95 during the refueling operation. Hence, at least a 5% Ak/k margin of
safety is established during refueling, During refueling, the water volume in
the spent fuel pool, the transfer canal, the refueling canal, the refueling
cavity, and the reactor vessel form a single ~ass. As a result the soluble
boron concentration is relatively the same in each of these volumes.
The RCS boron concentration satisfies Criterion 2 10CFR50.36(c) (2) (ii).
The LCO requires that a minimum boron concentration be maintained in the RCS,
the refueling canal, the fuel storage pool and the refueling cavity while in
MODE 6. The boron concentration limit specified in the COLR ensures that a
core Keff S 0.95 is maintained during fuel handling operations. Violation of
the LCO could lead to an inadvertent criticality during MODE 6.
This LCO is applicable in MODE 6 to ensure that the fuel in the reactor vessel
will remain subcritical. The required boron concentration ensures a Keff S
0.95. A note to this LCO modifies the Applicability. The note states that
the limits on boron concentration are only applicable to the refueling canal,
the fuel storage pool and the refueling cavity when those volumes are
connected to the Reactor Coolant System. When the refueling canal, the fuel
storage pool and the refueling cavity are isolated from the RCS, no potential
path for boron dilution exists. Above MODE 6, LCOs 3.1.1.1 and 3.1.1.2 ensure
that an adequate amount of negative reactivity is available to shut down the
reactor and maintain it subcritical.
Continuation of CORE ALTERATIONS or positive reactivity additions (including
actions to reduce boron concentration) is contingent upon maintaining the unit
in compliance with the LCO. If the boron concentration of any coolant volume
in the RCS, the refueling canal, the fuel storage pool or the refueling cavity
is less than its limit, all operations involving CORE ALTERATIONS or positive
reactivity additions must be suspended immediately. suspension of CORE
ALTERATIONS and positive reactivity additions shall not preclude moving a
component to a safe position. Operations that individually add limited
positive reactivity (e.g. temperature fluctuations from inventory addition or
temperature control fluctuations), but when combined with all other operations
affecting core reactivity (e.g., intentional boration) result in overall net
negative reactivity addition, are not precluded by this action.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 9-la Amendment No. 244

===== PAGE 110 =====

3/4.9 REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
In addition to immediately suspending CORE ALTERATIONS and positive reactivity additions,
boration to restore the concentration must be initiated immediately. In determining the required
combination of boration flow rate and concentration, no unique Design Basis Event must be
satisfied. The only requirement is to restore the boron concentration to its required value as
soon as possible. In order to raise the boron concentration as soon as possible, the operator
should begin boration with the best source available for unit conditions. Once actions have been
initiated, they must be continued until the boron concentration is restored. The restoration time
depends on the amount of boron that must be injected to reach the required concentration.
The Surveillance Requirement (SR) ensures that the coolant boron concentration in the RCS,
and connected portions of the refueling canal, the fuel storage pool and the refueling cavity, is
within the COLR limits. The boron concentration of the coolant in each required volume is
determined periodically by chemical analysis. Prior to reconnecting portions of the refueling
canal, the fuel storage pool or the refueling cavity to the RCS, this SR must be met per SR
4.0.4. If any dilution activity has occurred while the cavity or canal was disconnected from the
RCS, this SR ensures the correct boron concentration prior to communication with the RCS.
The Surveillance Frequency is based on operating experience, equipment reliability, and plant
risk and is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency Control Program.
3/4.9.2.1 UNBORATED WATER SOURCE ISOLATION VALVES
During MODE 6 operations, all isolation valves for the reactor makeup water sources containing
unborated water that are connected to the Reactor Coolant System (RCS) must be closed to
prevent unplanned boron dilution of the reactor coolant. The isolation valves must be secured in
the closed position.
Securing the required valves in the closed position during refueling operations ensures that the
valves cannot be inadvertently opened, and prevents the flow of unborated water to the filled
portion of the RCS. This action precludes the possibility of an inadvertent boron dilution event
occurring during MODE 6 refueling operations. By isolating unborated water sources, a safety
analysis for an uncontrolled boron dilution event in accordance with the Standard Review Plan
(NUREG-0800, Section 15.4.6) is not required for MODE 6.
If any required valve is found not secured in the closed position, there is a potential of having a
diluted boron concentration in the RCS. Immediately suspend CORE ALTERATIONS, and
initiate actions to secure the valve in the closed position. Surveillance Requirement 4.9.1 must
be performed to demonstrate that the required boron concentration exists. The 4 hour
completion time is sufficient to obtain and analyze a reactor coolant sample for boron
concentration.
Surveillance Requirement 4.9.2.1 demonstrates through a system walkdown that the required
valves are closed. The surveillance frequency is controlled under the Surveillance Frequency
Control Program.
3/4.9.2.2 INSTRUMENTATION
The source range neutron flux monitors are used during refueling operations to determine the
core reactivity condition. Two OPERABLE source range neutron flux monitors are required to
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 9-1b Amendment No. 292
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 111 =====

3/4.9 REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
alert the operator to unexpected changes in core reactivity, such as a boron dilution event. This
ensures that redundant monitoring capability is available to detect changes in core reactivity.
Based on isolating all boron dilution paths per LCO 3.9.2.1, only the source range neutron flux
monitor visual indication in the control room is required for OPERABILITY.
Any combination of NIS source range neutron flux monitors and/or Gamma-Metrics post-
accident neutron flux monitors may be used to satisfy the LCO. Two of the four total source
range neutron flux monitors are required to be OPERABLE.
With only one required source range neutron flux monitor OPERABLE, redundancy has been
lost. Suspending positive reactivity additions that could result in failure to meet the minimum
boron concentration limit is required to assure continued safe operation.
With no required source range neutron flux monitor OPERABLE, action to restore a monitor to
OPERABLE status shall be initiated immediately. With no source range neutron flux monitor
OPERABLE, there is no direct means of detecting changes in core reactivity. However, since
positive reactivity additions are not to be made, the core reactivity condition is stabilized until the
source range neutron flux monitors are OPERABLE. This stabilized condition is confirmed by
performing Surveillance Requirement 4.9.1 to ensure that the required boron concentration
exists and adequate shutdown margin is maintained.
3/4.9.3 DELETED
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 9-1c Amendment No. 315
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 112 =====

3/4.9 REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
3/4.9.4 CONTAINMENT BUILDING PENETRATIONS
During movement of irradiated fuel assemblies within containment the requirements for
containment building penetration closure capability and OPERABILITY ensure that a release of
fission product radioactivity within containment will not exceed the guidelines and dose
calculations described in Reg Guide 1.183, Alternative Radiological Source Term for Evaluating
Design Basis Accidents at Nuclear Power Plants. In MODE 6, the potential for containment
pressurization as a result of an accident is not likely. Therefore, the requirements to isolate the
containment from the outside atmosphere can be less stringent. The LCO requirements during
movement of irradiated fuel assemblies within containment are referred to as “containment
closure” rather than containment OPERABILITY. For the containment to be OPERABLE,
CONTAINMENT INTEGRITY must be maintained. Containment closure means that all potential
release paths are closed or capable of being closed. Closure restrictions include the
administrative controls to allow the opening of both airlock doors and the equipment hatch
during fuel movement provided that: 1) the equipment inside door or an equivalent closure
device installed is capable of being closed with four bolts within 1 hour by a designated
personnel; 2) the airlock doors are capable of being closed within 1 hour by designated
personnel, 3) either the Containment Purge System or the Auxiliary Building Ventilation System
taking suction from the containment atmosphere are operating and 4) the plant is in Mode 6 with
at least 23 feet of water above the reactor pressure vessel flange.
Administrative requirements are established for the responsibilities and appropriate actions of
the designated personnel in the event of a Fuel Handling Accident inside containment. These
requirements include the responsibility to be able to communicate with the control room, to
ensure that the equipment hatch is capable of being closed, and to close the equipment hatch
and personnel airlocks within 1 hour in the event of a fuel handling accident inside containment.
These administrative controls ensure containment closure will be established in accordance with
and not to exceed the dose calculations performed using guidelines of Regulatory Guide 1.183.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 9-1d Amendment No. 292
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 113 =====

REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
=-==------------------------------------------~----------==~===-=----~----------
The containment serves to limlt the fission product radioactivity that may be released from the reactor
core following an accident, such that of/site radiation . exposures are maintained well within the
requirements of 10CFR100 and Reg Guide 1.183, Alternative Source Term, as appllcable. Additionally,
the containment provides radiation shielding from the fission products that may be present in the
containment atmosphere following accident conditions,
The Containment Equipment Hatch, which Is part of the containment pressure boundary, provides a
means for moving large equipment and components Into or out of containment. During movement of
irradiated fuel assemblies within containment can be open provided that: 1) it is capable of being closed
with four bolts within 1 hour by designated personnel, 2) either the Containment Purge System or the
Auxiliary Bu/lding Ventilation System taking suction from the containment atmosphere are operating and
3) the plant is in Mode 6 wlth at least 23 feet of water above the reactor pressure vessel flange. Good
engineering practice dictates that the bolts required by the LCO are approximately equally spaced.
An equivalent closure device may be installed as an alternative to installing the Containment Equipment
Hatch inside door with a minimum of four bolts. Such a closure device may provide penetrations for
temporary services used to support maintenance activities Inside containment at times when containment
~losure is-required; and may.be.installed In.place of the Containment Equipment·Hatch inside door or
outside door. Penetrations Incorporated into the design of an equivalent closure device will be
considered a part of the containment. boundary and as such will be subject to the requirements of
Technical Specification 3/4.9.4, Any equivalent closure device used to satisfy the requirements of
Technical Specification 3/4.9.4.a will be designed, fabricated, installed, tested, and utilized In accordance
with established procedures to ensure that the design requirements for the mitigation ol a fuel handling
accident during refueling operations are met. In case that this equivalent closure device Is Installed In lieu
of the equipment hatch inside door, the same restrictions and administrative controls apply to ensure
closure will take place within 1 hour following a Fuel Handling Accident inside containment.
The containment air locks, which are also part of the containment pressure boundary, provide a means
for personnel access during operation In MODES 1, 2, 3, and 4 as specified In LCO 3.6.1.3, l'Contalnment
Alr Locks". Each air lock has a door at both ends. The doors are normally Interlocked to prevent
simultaneous opening when containment OPERABILITY Is required. During periods of unit shutdown,
when containment closure Is not required and frequent containment entry is necessary, the air lock
interlock mechanism may be disabled. This allows both doors of an airlock to remain open for extended
periods. During movement of irradiated fuel assemblles within containment, containment closure may be
required; therefore, the door Interlock mechanism may remain disabled, and both doors of each
containment airlock may be open if: 1) At least one door of each airlock is capable of being closed within
1 hour by dedicated personnel,) 2) either the Containment Purge System or the Auxlliary Butlding
Ventilation System taking suction from the containment atmosphere are operating and 3) The plant is in
Mode 6 with at least 23 feet of water above the reactor pressure vessel flange.
In the postulated FHA, the revised dose calculations performed using RG 1 . 183 criteria, do not assume
automatic containment purge isolation thus allowing for continous monitoring of containment acltivity until
the release pathways are isolated.. If required, manual isolation of containment purge can be initiated
from the control room.
The other containment penetrations that provide direct access from containment atmosphere to outside
atmosphere must be isolated on at least one side. Isolation may be achieved by an OPERABLE
automatic isolation valve, or by a manual isolation valve, blind flange, or equivalent Equivalent isolation
methods may include the use of a material that can provide a temporary atmospheric pressure, ventilation
barrier. Any equivalent method used to satisfy the requirements of Technical Specification 3/4.9.4,o.1 will
be designed, fabricated, Installed, tested, and utilized in accordance with established procedures to
ensure that the design requirements for the mitigation of a fuel handling accident during refueling
operations are met.
SALEM -UNIT 2 B 3/4 9-2 Amendment No. 245

===== PAGE 114 =====

REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
============--------===========================-==============================
The surveillance requirement 4.9.4.2 demonstrates that the necessary hardware, tools, and equipment
are available to close the equipment hatch. The surveillance is performed once per refueling prior to the
start of movement of irradiated fuel assemblies within the containment. This surveillance is only required
to be met when the equipment hatch is open.
3/4.9.5 COMMUNICATIONS
Deleted.
3/4.9.6 MANIPULATOR CRANE
Deleted.
3/4.9.7 CRANE TRAVEL -SPENT FUEL STORAGE BUILDING
Deleted.
3/4.9.8 RESIDUAL HEAT REMOVAL AND COOLANT CIRCULATION
The requirements that at least one residual heat removal loop be in operation ensures that (1) sufficient
cooling capacity is available to remove decay heat and maintain the water in the reactor pressure vessel
below 140°F as required during the REFUELING MODE, and (2) sufficient coolant circulation is
maintained through the reactor core to minimize the effects of a boron dilution incident and prevent boron
stratification. A minimum flow rate of 1000 gpm is required. Additional flow limitations are specified in plant
procedures, with the design basis documented in the Salem UFSAR. These flow limitations address the
concerns related to vortexing and air entrapment in the Residual Heat Removal system, and provide
operational flexibility by adjusting the flow limitations based on time after shutdown. The requirement to
have two RHR loops OPERABLE when there is less than 23 feet of water above the reactor vessel flange
ensures that a single failure of the operating RHR loop will not result in a complete loss of residual heat
removal capability.
For support systems: Service Water (SW) and Component Cooling (CC), component redundancy is
necessary to ensure no single active component failure will cause the loss of Decay Heat Removal. One
piping path of SW and CC is adequate when it supports both RHR loops. The support systems needed
before entering into the desired configuration (e.g., one service water loop out for maintenance in Modes 5
and 6) are controlled by procedures, and include the following:
- A requirement that the two RHR, two CC and two SW pumps, powered from two different vital
buses be kept operable
- A listing of the active (air/motor operated) valves in the affected flow path to be locked open or
disable.
SALEM - UN IT 2 B 3/4 9-3 Amendment No. 277
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 115 =====

REFUELING OPERATIONS
BASES
Note that four filled reactor coolant loops, with at least two steam generators with at least their
secondary side water level greater than or equal to 5% (narrow range), may be substituted for
one residual heat removal loop. This ensures that single failure does not cause a loss of decay
heat removal.
With the reactor vessel head removed and 23 feet of water above the reactor pressure vessel
flange, a large heat sink is available for core cooling. Thus, in the event of a failure of the
operating RHR loop, adequate time is provided to initiate emergency procedures to cool the
core.
3/4.9.9 (Not Used)
3/4.9.10 and 3/4/9/11 WATER LEVEL - REACTOR VESSEL AND STORAGE POOL
The restrictions on minimum water level ensure that sufficient water depth is available to
remove 99% of the assumed 10% iodine gap activity released from the rupture of an irradiated
fuel assembly. The minimum water depth is consistent with the assumptions of the accident
analysis.
3/4.9.12 DELETED
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 9-4 Amendment No. 315
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 116 =====

3/4.10 SPECIAL TEST EXCEPTIONS
BASES
3/4.10.1 SHUTDOWN MARGIN
This special test exception provides that a minimum amount of control
rod worth is immediately available for reactivity control when tests are
performed for control rod worth measurement. This special test exception is
required to permit the periodic verification of the actual versus predicted
core reactivity condition occurring as a result of fuel burnup or fuel
cycling operations.
3/4.10.2 GROUP HEIGHT, INSERTION, AND POWER DISTRIBUTION LIMITS
This special test exception permits individual control rods to be
positioned outside of their normal grou~ heights and insertion limits during
the performance of such PHYSICS TESTS as those required to 1) measure control
rod worth, and 2) determine the reactor stability index and damping factor
under xenon oscillation conditions.
3/4.10.3 PHYSICS TESTS
This special test exception permits PHYSICS TESTS to be performed at
less than or equal to 5% of RATBD THBRJIAL POWER with the Reactor Coolant
System Tavg slightly lower than no::cma.lly allowed so that the fundamental
nuclear characteristics of the reactor core and related instrumentation can
be verified. In order for various characteristics to be accurately measured,
it is, at times, necessary to operate outside the normal restrictions of
these Technical Specifications. For in■tance, to measure the moderator
temperature coefficient at BOL, it is necessary to position the various
control rods at heights which may not be allowed by Specification 3.1.3.5
which may, in turn, cause the RCS Tavg to fall slightly below the minimum
temperature of Specification 3.1.1.4.
3/4.10.4 NO PLOW TBSTS
This special test exception permit• reactor criticality under no flow
conditions and is required to perform certain startup and PHYSICS TBSTS while
at low THERMAL POWER levels.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 10-l Amendment No. 206

===== PAGE 117 =====

3/4.11 RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
3/4.11.1 LIQUID EFFLUENTS
3/4.11.1.1 Deleted
3/4.11.1.2 Deleted
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 11-1 Amendment No. 215

===== PAGE 118 =====

RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
3/4.11.1.3 Deleted
3/4.11.1.4 LIQUID HOLDUP TANKS
The tanks listed in this specification include all those outdoor tanks that
are not surrounded by liners, dikes, or walls capable of holding the tank
contents and that do not have tank overflows and surrounding area drains
connected to the liquid radwaste treatment system.
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 11-2 Amendment No. 215

===== PAGE 119 =====

RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
Restricting the quantity of radioactive material contained in the specified tanks provides
assurance that in the event of an uncontrolled release of the tanks' contents, the resulting
concentrations would be less than the limits of 10 CFR Part 20, Appendix B, Table II, Column 2,
at the nearest potable water supply and the nearest surface water supply in an unrestricted
area.
3/4.11.2 GASEOUS EFFLUENTS
3/4.11.2.1 Deleted
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 11-3 Amendment No. 323
(PSEG Issued)

===== PAGE 120 =====

RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
3/4.11.2.2 Deleted
3/4.11.2.3 Deleted
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 11-4 Amendment No. 215

===== PAGE 121 =====

RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
3/4.11.2.4 Deleted
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 11-5 Amendment No. 215

===== PAGE 122 =====

RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
3/4.11.2.5 EXPLOSIVE GAS MIXTURE
This specification is provided to ensure that the concentration of potentially
explosive gas mixtures contained in the waste gas holdup system is maintained
below the flammability limits of hydrogen and oxygen. Maintaining the
concentration of oxygen below the specified values provides assurance that the
releases of radioactive materials will be controlled in conformance with the
requirements of General Design Criterion 60 of Appendix A to 10 CFR Part 50.
This specification is not applicable to portions of the Waste Gas System
Removed from service for maintenance, provided that the portions removed for
maintenance are isolated from sources of hydrogen and purged of hydrogen to
less than 4% by volume.
3/4.11.3 Deleted
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 11-6 Amendment No. 243

===== PAGE 123 =====

RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
3/4.11.4 Deleted
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 11-7 Amendment No. 215

===== PAGE 124 =====

RADIOACTIVE EFFLUENTS
BASES
3/4.12 Deleted
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 12-1 Amendment No. 215

===== PAGE 125 =====

This Page Intentionally Blank
SALEM - UNIT 2 B 3/4 12-2 Amendment No. 215